**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor**

### Product Description

The DPS368 is a miniaturized Digital
Barometric Air Pressure Sensor robust
against water, dust and humidity. It offers a

high accuracy and a low current
consumption, capable of measuring both
pressure and temperature. The pressure
sensor element is based on a capacitive
sensing principle which guarantees high

precision during temperature changes. The
small package makes the DPS368 ideal for
mobile applications and wearable devices.
Due to its robustness it can be used in harsh
environment.

The internal signal processor converts the output from the pressure and temperature sensor elements to 24 bit
results. Each unit is individually calibrated, the calibration coefficients calculated during this process are stored

in the calibration registers. The coefficients are used in the application to convert the measurement results to
high accuracy pressure and temperature values.

The result FIFO can store up to 32 measurement results, allowing for a reduced host processor polling rate.

Sensor measurements and calibration coefficients are available through the serial I²C or SPI interface. The
measurement status is indicated by status bits or interrupts on the SDO pin.

### Features

- **Pressure sensor with environmentally resistant package**
- **Operation range:** Pressure: 300 –1200 hPa. Temperature: -40 – 85 °C.
- **Pressure sensor precision:** ± 0.002 hPa (or ±0.02 m) (high precision mode).
- **Relative accuracy:** ± 0.06 hPa (or ±0.5 m)
- **Absolute accuracy:** ± 1 hPa (or ±8 m)
- **IPx8 certified:** Temporary immersion of 50m for 1 hour
- **Temperature accuracy:** ± 0.5°C.
- **Pressure temperature sensitivity:** 0.5Pa/K
- **Measurement time:** Typical 27.6 ms for standard mode (16x). Minimum: 3.6 ms for low precision mode.
- **Average current consumption:** 1.7 μA for pressure measurement, 1.5 μA for temperature measurement

```
@1Hz sampling rate, standby: 0.5 μA.
```
- **Supply voltage:** VDDIO: 1.2 – 3.6 V, VDD: 1.7 – 3.6 V.
- **Operating modes:** Command (manual), Background (automatic), and Standby.
- **Calibration:** Individually calibrated with coefficients for measurement correction.
- **FIFO:** Stores up to 32 pressure or temperature measurements.
- **Interface:** I2C and SPI (both with optional interrupt)
- **Package dimensions:** 8-pin PG-VLGA-8-2 , 2.0 mm x 2.5 mm x 1.1 mm.
- **Green Product (RoHS) Compliant**

Datasheet Please read the Important Notice and Warnings at the end of this document v1.
**[http://www.infineon.com](http://www.infineon.com)** 2019-07-


### Typical applications

- **Smart watches, wearable & smart phone** ( e.g. altitude, fitness tracking, step counting, fall detection)
- **Home appliances** (e.g. air flow control in HVAC / vacuum cleaner, water level detection, intruder detection)
- **Drones** ( e.g. flight stability, height control)
- **Health care** (e.g. fall detection, air flow monitoring, smart inhaler)

### Product Validation.

**Qualified for industrial applications according to the relevant tests of JEDEC47/20/22.**

**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor**

**Typical applications**

Datasheet 2 v1.


### Table of contents

## Table of contents

**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor**


**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor**

   - Product Description
   - Features
   - Typical applications
   - Product Validation.
   - Table of contents
- 1 Definitions, acronyms and abbreviations
- 1.1 Definitions
- 2 Pin Configuration and Block Diagram
- 2.1 Pin Configuration and Description.
- 2.2 Block Diagram
- 3 Specifications
- 3.1 Operating Range
- 3.2 Absolute Maximum Ratings.
- 3.3 Current Consumption
- 3.4 Temperature Transfer Function
- 3.5 Pressure Transfer Function
- 3.6 Timing Characteristics
- 4 Functional Description.
- 4.1 Operating Modes
- 4.2 Mode transition diagram
- 4.3 Start-up sequence
- 4.4 Measurement Precision and Rate
- 4.5 Sensor Interface.
- 4.6 Interrupt
- 4.7 Result Register Operation
- 4.8 FIFO Operation.
- 4.9 Calibration and Measurement Compensation
- 4.9.1 How to Calculate Compensated Pressure Values
- 4.9.2 How to Calculate Compensated Temperature Values
- 4.9.3 Compensation Scale Factors.
- 4.9.4 Pressure and Temperature calculation flow
- 5 Applications.
- 5.1 Measurement Settings and Use Case Examples
- 5.2 Application Circuit Example
- 5.3 IIR filtering.
- 6 Digital interfaces
- Datasheet 3 v1. Table of contents
- 6.1 I2C Interface
- 6.2 SPI Interface
- 6.3 Interface parameters specification
- 6.3.1 General interface parameters.
- 6.3.1.1 I2C timings
- 6.3.1.2 SPI timings
- 7 Register Map.
- 8 Register description
- 8.1 Pressure Data (PRS_Bn)
- 8.1.1 PRS_B2
- 8.1.2 PRS_B1
- 8.1.3 PRS_B0
- 8.2 Temperature Data (TMP_Tn).
- 8.2.1 TMP_B2
- 8.2.2 TMP_B1
- 8.2.3 TMP_B0
- 8.3 Pressure Configuration (PRS_CFG)
- 8.4 Temperature Configuration(TMP_CFG)
- 8.5 Sensor Operating Mode and Status (MEAS_CFG)
- 8.6 Interrupt and FIFO configuration (CFG_REG)
- 8.7 Interrupt Status (INT_STS).
- 8.8 FIFO Status (FIFO_STS).
- 8.9 Soft Reset and FIFO flush (RESET)
- 8.10 Product and Revision ID (ID)
- 8.11 Calibration Coefficients (COEF)
- 8.12 Coefficient Source
- 9 Package Dimensions.
- 9.1 Package drawing
- 10 Footprint and stencil recommendation
- 11 Reflow soldering and board assembly
- 12 Package Handling
   - Revision history
   - Disclaimer
- Datasheet 4 v1. Table of contents


## 1 Definitions, acronyms and abbreviations

## 1.1 Definitions

An explanation of terms and definitions used in this datasheet.

**Table 1**

**Term Definition/explanation**

Absolute accuracy The absolute measurement accuracy over the entire measurement
range.

Digital bit depth The total bit depth used for conversion of the sensor input to the
digital output. Measured in bits.

Digital resolution The pressure value represented by the LSB change in output. This
value should be much smaller than the sensor noise.

Full Scale Range (FSR) The peak-to-peak measurement range of the sensor.

LSB Least Significant Bit

Measurement time The time required to acquire one sensor output result. This value
determines the maximum **measurement rate**.

MSB Most Significant Bit

Non-linearity The deviation of measured output from the best-fit straight line,
relative to 1000 hPa and 25 °C.

Output compensation The process of applying an algorithm to the sensor output to improve
the absolute accuracy of the sensor across temperature and to
minimize unit to unit output variation. This algorithm makes use of
both the temperature sensor readings and the individual calibration
coefficients.

Precision (noise) The smallest measurable change, expressed as rms, after sensor
oversampling.

Pressure temperature coefficient The pressure measurement deviation, after compensation, from
expected measurement value due to temperature change from 25 °C.
Measured in Pa/K.

Sensor calibration The process, during the production test, where the sensor's
measurement results are compared against reference values, and a set
of calibration coefficients are calculated from the deviation. The
coefficients are stored in the sensor's memory and are used in the
output compensation.

Sensor oversampling rate (OSR) Specifies the number of sensor measurements used internally to
generate one sensor output result.

**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor**

**1 Definitions, acronyms and abbreviations**

Datasheet 5 v1.


## 2 Pin Configuration and Block Diagram

## 2.1 Pin Configuration and Description.

**Figure 1 Pin configuration (top view, figure not to scale)**

```
Table 2 Pin description
```
```
Pin Name SPI 3-wire SPI 3-wire with
interrupt
```
```
SPI 4-wire I^2 C I^2 C with
interrupt
1 GND Ground
2 CSB Chip select - active
low
```
```
Chip select -
active low
```
```
Chip select -
active low
```
```
Not used - open
(internal pull-up)
or tie to VDDIO
```
```
Not used - open
(internal pull-
up) or tie to
VDDIO
3 SDI Serial data in/out Serial data in/out Serial data in Serial data in/out Serial data
in/out
4 SCK Serial Clock
5 SDO Not used Interrupt Serial data out Least significant
bit in the device
address.
```
```
Interrupt pin
and least
significant bit in
the device
address.
6 VDDIO Digital supply voltage for digital blocks and I/O interface
7 GND Ground
8 VDD Supply voltage for analog blocks
```
```
Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor
```
```
2 Pin Configuration and Block Diagram
```
```
Datasheet 6 v1.
```

## 2.2 Block Diagram

**Figure 2**

## 3 Specifications

## 3.1 Operating Range

```
The following operating conditions must not be exceeded in order to ensure correct operation of the device. All
parameters specified in the following sections refer to these operating conditions, unless noted otherwise.
```
```
Table 3 Operating Range
```
```
Parameter Symbol Values Unit Note / Test Condition
Min. Typ. Max.
Pressure Pa 300 1200 hPa
Temperature Ta -40 85 °C
Supply voltage VDD 1.7 3.6 V
Supply voltage IO VDDIO 1.2 3.6 V
Supply voltage ramp-up time tvddup 0.001 5 ms Time for supply voltage
to reach 90% of final
value.
Solder drift 1) 0.8 hPa Minimum solder height
50um.
Long term stability ±1 hPa Depending on
environmental
conditions.
```
(^1) Effects of solder drift can be eliminated by one point calibration. See AN487.
**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor
3 Specifications**
Datasheet 7 v1.


## 3.2 Absolute Maximum Ratings.

Maximum ratings are absolute ratings. Exceeding any one of these values may cause irreversible damage to the

integrated circuit.

**Attention** : **Stresses above the values listed as "Absolute Maximum Ratings" may cause permanent damage
to the devices. Exposure to absolute maximum rating conditions for extended periods may affect
device reliability.**

**Table 4 Absolute Maximum Ratings**

**Parameter Symbol Values Unit Note / Test**

```
Min. Typ. Max. Condition
```
VDD and VDDIO VDDxx_max 4 V

Voltage on any pin Vmax 4 V

Storage temperature Ts -40 125 °C

Pressure Pmax 10,000 hPa

ESD VESD_HBM -2 2 KV HBM (JS001)

## 3.3 Current Consumption

Test conditions (unless otherwise specified in the table): VDD= 1.8V and VDDIO=1.8V. Typ. values (PA=1000hPa and

TA=25°C). Max./Min. values (PA= 950-1050hPa and TA=0...+65°C).

**Table 5 Current Consumption**

**Parameter Symbol Values Unit Note / Test Condition**

```
Min. Typ. Max.
```
Peak Current Consumption Ipeak 345 μA during Pressure
measurement
280 μA during Temperature
measurement

Standby Current Consumption Istb 0.5 μA

Current Consumption.

( 1 pressure and temperature
measurements per second.)

```
I1Hz 2.1 μA Low precision
11 Standard precision
38 High precision
```
Note: The current consumption depends on both pressure measurement precision and rate. Please refer to the
**Pressure Configuration (PRS_CFG)** register description for an overview of the current consumption in different
combinations of measurement precision and rate.

**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor**

**3 Specifications**

Datasheet 8 v1.


## 3.4 Temperature Transfer Function

Test conditions (unless otherwise specified in the table): VDD= 1.8V and VDDIO=1.8V. Typ. values (PA=1000hPa and

TA=25°C). Max./Min. values (PA= 950-1050hPa and TA=0...+65°C).

**Table 6 Temperature Transfer Function**

**Parameter Symbol Values Unit Note / Test Condition**

```
Min. Typ. Max.
```
Temperature accuracy At +/-0.5 °C

Temperature data resolution At_res 0.01 °C

Temperature measurement rate f 1 128 Hz

**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor**

**3 Specifications**

Datasheet 9 v1.


## 3.5 Pressure Transfer Function

Test conditions (unless otherwise specified in the table): VDD= 1.8V and VDDIO=1.8V. Typ. values (PA=1000hPa and

TA=25°C).

**Table 7 Pressure Transfer Function**

**Parameter Symbol Values Unit Note / Test Condition**

```
Min. Typ. Max.
```
Absolute pressure accuracy Ap_abs +/-100 Pa Pa=300 - 1200hPa;
TA=0..+65°C; Excluding
solder effects

Relative pressure accuracy Ap_rel +/-6 Pa Any Δ1hPa in the range
Pa=800 - 1200hP; Any
constant temperature in
the range TA=20..+60°C

Pressure precision Ap_prc 1.0 PaRMS Low Power

```
0.35 Standard
0.2 High Precision
```
Note: Pressure precision is measured as the average standard deviation. Please refer to the **Pressure
Configuration (PRS_CFG)** register description for all precision mode options.

Power supply rejection Ap_psr 0.063 PaRMS Measured with 217Hz
square wave and broad
band noise, 100mVpp

Pressure temperature sensitivity
of calibrated measurements

```
Ap_tmp 0.5 Pa/K 1000hPa, 25...+65°C.
```
Pressure data resolution Ap_res 0.06 PaRMS

Pressure measurement rate f 1 128 Hz

Pressure measurement time t 5.2 ms Low Power

```
27.6 Standard
105 High Precision
```
Note: The pressure measurement time (and thus the maximum rate) depends on the pressure
measurement precision. Please refer to the **Pressure Configuration (PRS_CFG)** register description
for an overview of the possible combinations of measurement precision and rate.

**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor**

**3 Specifications**

Datasheet 10 v1.


## 3.6 Timing Characteristics

**Table 8 Timing Characteristics**

**Parameter Symbol Values Unit Note / Test Condition**

```
Min. Typ. Max.
```
Start-up timing

Time to sensor ready TSensor_rdy 12 ms The SENSOR_RDY bit in the
Measurement Configuration
register will be set when the
sensor is ready.

Time to coefficients are
available.

```
TCoef_rdy 40 ms The COEF_RDY bit in the
Measurement Configuration
register will be set when the
coefficients can be read out.
```
Note: Start-up timing is measured from VDD > 1.2V & VDDIO > 0.6V or Soft Reset.

I^2 C Clock. fI2C 3.4 MHz

SPI Clock fSPI 10 MHz

## 4 Functional Description.

## 4.1 Operating Modes

The supports 3 different modes of operation: Standby, Command, and Background mode.

- Standby Mode
    - Default mode after power on or reset. No measurements are performed.
    - All registers and compensation coefficients are accessible.
- Command Mode
    - One temperature or pressure measurement is performed according to the selected precision.
    - The sensor will return to Standby Mode when the measurement is finished, and the measurement
       result will be available in the data registers.
- Background Mode
    - Pressure and/or temperature measurements are performed continuously according to the selected
       measurement precision and rate. The temperature measurement is performed immediately after the
       pressure measurement.
    - The FIFO can be used to store 32 measurement results and minimize the number of times the sensor
       must be accessed to read out the results.

Note: Operation mode and measurement type are set in the **Sensor Operating Mode and Status
(MEAS_CFG)** register.

## 4.2 Mode transition diagram

The mode transition diagram is shown below.

**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor**

**4 Functional Description**

Datasheet 11 v1.


**Figure 3 Mode transition diagram**

## 4.3 Start-up sequence

```
The start-up sequence is shown below. This diagram shows when the registers are accessible for read and/or
write and also when the Pressure/Temperature measurements can start.
```
**Figure 4 Start-up sequence**

## 4.4 Measurement Precision and Rate

```
Different applications require different measurement precision and measurement rates. Some applications,
such as weather stations, require lower precision and measurement rates than for instance indoor navigation
and sports applications.
When the sensor is in Background Mode, the measurement precision and rate can be configured to match the
requirements of the application. This reduces current consumption of the sensor and the system.
```
```
Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor
```
```
4 Functional Description
```
```
Datasheet 12 v1.
```

```
In order to achieve a higher precision, the sensor will read multiple times ( oversampling ), and combine the
readings into one result. This increases the current consumption and also the measurement time, reducing the
maximum possible measurement rate. It is necessary to balance the accuracy and data rate required for each
application with the allowable current consumption.
The measurement precision, rate and time is set in the Pressure Configuration (PRS_CFG) and Temperature
Configuration(TMP_CFG) registers. The register descriptions contain information about the current
consumption and the possible combinations of measurement precision, time, and rate.
Enabling temperature measurements allows for compensation of temperature drift in the pressure
measurement. The rates of these measurements can be set independently, but temperature compensation is
more accurate when temperature and pressure measurements are taken together. This reduces the maximum
pressure measurement rate, since: Ratetemperature*Timetemperature + Ratepressure*Timepressure< 1 second.
Measurement Settings and Use Case Examples contains a table with examples of combinations of pressure
and temperature precision and rates for different use cases.
In the figure below is described the Temperature and Pressure measurements sequence in background mode.
```
**Figure 5 Background mode temperature and pressure measurements sequence**

## 4.5 Sensor Interface.

```
The DPS368 can be accessed as a slave device through mode '11' SPI 3-wire, SPI 4-wire, or I^2 C serial interface.
```
- I^2 C interface
    - The sensor's default interface.
    - The sensor's address is 0x77 (default) or 0x76 (if the SDO pin is pulled-down to GND).
- SPI interface
    - The sensor will switch to SPI configuration if it detects an active low on the CSB pin. SPI 4-wire is the
       default SPI interface.
    - To enable SPI 3-wire configuration, a bit must be set in the **Interrupt and FIFO configuration**
       **(CFG_REG)** register after start up.
More details about digital interfaces are available in the **Digital interfaces**.

## 4.6 Interrupt

```
The sensor can generate an interrupt when a new measurement result is available and/or when the FIFO is full.
The sensor uses the SDO pin for the interrupt signal, and interrupt is therefore not supported if the interface is 4-
wire SPI.
The interrupt is enabled and configured in the Interrupt and FIFO configuration (CFG_REG) register. In I^2 C
configuration the SDO pin serves as both interrupt and as the least significant bit in the device address. If the
SDO pin is pulled low the interrupt polarity must be set to active high and vice-versa.
The interrupt status can be read from the Interrupt Status (INT_STS) register.
```
```
Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor
```
```
4 Functional Description
```
```
Datasheet 13 v1.
```

## 4.7 Result Register Operation

After starting the measurements, the latest pressure and temperature raw data will be available in their

respective result registers. Temperature measurement can be skipped. The temperature measurements can be
disabled if there is a requirement to measure pressure rapidly, but it will make accurate temperature drift
compensation impossible.

All measurement data can be read in a single command using auto-increment read. When FIFO is disabled,
reading the result register will not affect the register value, it will only be updated when a new measurement is

completed. When FIFO is enabled, the pressure result register will update to the next value in the FIFO after each
read. When all of the FIFO values have been read, the result register will be set to 0x800000.

## 4.8 FIFO Operation.

The FIFO can store the last 32 measurements of pressure or temperature. This reduces the overall system power
consumption as the host processor does not need to continuously poll data from the sensor but can go into
standby mode for longer periods of time.

The FIFO can store any combination of pressure and temperature results, according to the background mode
measurement rate settings. The pressure rate can for instance be set 4 times higher than the temperature rate
and thus only every fifth result will be a temperature result. The measurement type can be seen in the result
data. The sensor will set the least significant bit to:

- '1' if the result is a pressure measurement.
- '0' if it is a temperature measurement.
    - The sensor uses 24 bits to store the measurement result. Because this is more bits than is needed to
       cover the full dynamic range of the pressure sensor, using the least significant bit to label the
       measurement type will not affect the precision of the result.

The FIFO can be enabled in the Interrupt and FIFO configuration register. The data from the FIFO is read out
from the Pressure Data (PRS_Bn) registers regardless of whether the next result in the FIFO is a temperature or a
pressure measurement.

When a measurement has been read out, the FIFO will auto increment and place the next result in the data
register. A flag will be set in the FIFO Status register when the FIFO is empty and all following reads will return
0x800000.

If the FIFO is full, the FIFO_FULL bit in the FIFO Status (FIFO_STS)will be set. If the INT_FIFO bit in the Interrupt
and FIFO configuration register ( CFG_REG) is set, an interrupt will also be generated when the FIFO is full.

The FIFO will stop recording measurements results when it is full.

## 4.9 Calibration and Measurement Compensation

The sensor is a calibrated sensor and contains calibration coefficients. These are used in the application (for
instance by the host processor) to compensate the measurement results for sensor non-linearities.

The sections that follow describe how to calculate the compensated results and convert them into Pa and °C
values.

**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor**

**4 Functional Description**

Datasheet 14 v1.


## 4.9.1 How to Calculate Compensated Pressure Values

**Steps**

**1.** Read the pressure calibration coefficients (c00, c10, c20, c30, c01, c11, and c21) from the Calibration
    Coefficient register.

```
Note: The coefficients read from the coefficient register are 2's complement numbers.
```
**2.** Choose scaling factors kT (for temperature) and kP (for pressure) based on the chosen precision rate. The
    scaling factors are listed in **Table 9**.
**3.** Read the pressure and temperature result from the registers or FIFO.

```
Note: The measurements read from the result registers (or FIFO) are 24 bit 2 ́s complement numbers.
Depending on the chosen measurement rates, the temperature may not have been measured
since the last pressure measurement.
```
**4.** Calculate scaled measurement results.

```
Traw_sc = Traw/kT
Praw_sc = Praw/kP
```
**5.** Calculate compensated measurement results.

```
Pcomp(Pa) = c00 + Praw_sc*(c10 + Praw_sc *(c20+ Praw_sc *c30)) + Traw_sc *c01 +
Traw_sc *Praw_sc *(c11+Praw_sc*c21)
```
## 4.9.2 How to Calculate Compensated Temperature Values

**Steps**

**1.** Read the temperature calibration coefficients ( c0 and c1 ) from the **Calibration Coefficients (COEF)**
    register.

```
Note: The coefficients read from the coefficient register are 12 bit 2 ́s complement numbers.
```
**2.** Choose scaling factor kT (for temperature) based on the chosen precision rate. The scaling factors are
    listed in **Table 9**.
**3.** Read the temperature result from the temperature register or FIFO.

```
Note: The temperature measurements read from the temperature result register (or FIFO) are 24 bit 2
́s complement numbers.
```
**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor**

**4 Functional Description**

Datasheet 15 v1.


**4.** Calculate scaled measurement results.

```
Traw_sc = Traw/kT
```
**5.** Calculate compensated measurement results.

```
Tcomp (°C) = c0*0.5 + c1*Traw_sc
```
## 4.9.3 Compensation Scale Factors.

```
Table 9 Compensation Scale Factors
```
```
Oversampling Rate Scale Factor (kP or kT) Result shift ( bit 2and 3 address
0x09)
1 (single) 524288 0
2 times (Low Power) 1572864 0
4 times 3670016 0
8 times 7864320 0
16 times (Standard) 253952 enable pressure or temperature
shift
32 times 516096 enable pressure or temperature
shift
64 times (High Precision) 1040384 enable pressure or temperature
shift
128 times 2088960 enable pressure or temperature
shift
```
## 4.9.4 Pressure and Temperature calculation flow

```
The flow chart below describes the Pressure and Temperature calculate
```
**Figure 6 Pressure and temperature calculation flow**

```
Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor
```
```
4 Functional Description
```
```
Datasheet 16 v1.
```

See also **How to Calculate Compensated Pressure Values** and **How to Calculate Compensated Temperature
Values**

**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor**

**4 Functional Description**

Datasheet 17 v1.


## 5 Applications.

## 5.1 Measurement Settings and Use Case Examples

**Table 10 Measurement Settings and Use Case Examples (TBD)**

**Use Case Performance Pressure Register
Configuration
Address: 0x**

```
Temperature
Register
Configuration
Address: 0x
```
```
Other
```
Weather Station (Low power) 5 Pa precision.

```
1 pr sec.
3 uA
```
```
0x01 0x80 Start
background
measurements
(addr 0x08)
```
Indoor navigation (Standard
precision, background mode)

```
10 cm precision.
2 pr sec.
22 uA
```
```
0x14 0x90 Enable P shift
(addr 0x09)
Start
background
measurements
(addr 0x08)
```
Sports (High precision, high
rate, background mode)

```
5 cm precision
4 pr sec.
200 uA
```
```
0x26 0xA0 Enable P shift
(addr 0x09)
Start
background
measurements
(addr 0x08)
```
**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor**

**5 Applications**

Datasheet 18 v1.


## 5.2 Application Circuit Example

```
The examples application circuit uses the I^2 C and SPI serial interface. The SDO pin can be used for interrupt or
to set least significant bit of the device address. The DPS368 analog core supply voltage is internally regulated,
guaranteeing robustness to external VDD supply variations within the specified range. The simplest voltage
supply solution is to connect VDD and VDDIO to 1.8V supply and add a suitable decoupling capacitor to reduce
VDD ripple below 50mVpp.
```
**Figure 7 Application Circuit Example using the I**^2 **C serial interface.**

**Figure 8 Application Circuit Example using the SPI 4-wires serial interface**

**Figure 9 Application Circuit Example using the SPI 3-wire serial interface**

```
Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor
```
```
5 Applications
```
```
Datasheet 19 v1.
```

**Figure 10 Application Circuit Example using the SPI 3-wire with interrupt interface**

```
Table 11 Component Values
```
```
Component Symbol Values Unit Note / Test Condition
Min. Typ. Max.
Pull-up/down Resistor R 1 , R 2 10 KΩ
R 3 100 KΩ R 3 is optional and will set
the address to 0x76 instead
of 0x77.
Supply Blocking Capacitor C 1 , C 2 100 100 nF The blocking capacitors
should be placed as close
to the package pins as
possible.
```
## 5.3 IIR filtering.

```
The air pressure is slowly changing due to weather conditions or short term changing like air turbulence created
by a fan, slamming a door or window. All these disturbances can be suppressed or triggered on the software
application level by implementing different IIR filtering.
Same sensor can be used by different software applications applying different IIR filtering to the raw data like
low pass, high pass or band pass filtering.
```
## 6 Digital interfaces

```
The measurement data, calibration coefficients, Product ID and configuration registers can be accessed through
both the I^2 C and SPI serial interfaces.
The SPI interface can configured to operate in 3-wire or 4-wire mode. In I2C and SPI 3-wire, an interrupt output
can be implemented on the SDO pin. The SPI interface support mode '11' only ( CPOL=CPHA='1' ) in 4-wire and
3-wire configuration. The following commands are supported: single byte write, single byte read and multiple
byte read using auto increment from a specified start address. The interface selection is done based on CSB pin
status. If CSB is connected to VDDIO, the I^2 C interface is active. If CSB is low, the SPI interface is active. After the
CSB has been pulled down once the I^2 C interface is disabled until the next power-on-reset.
```
```
Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor
```
```
Digital interfaces
```
```
Datasheet 20 v1.
```

## 6.1 I2C Interface

```
The I^2 C slave interface is compatible with Philips I^2 C Specification version 2.1. The I^2 C interface supports
standard, fast and high speed mode.
The sensor's address is 0x77 (if SDO pin is left floating or pulled-up to VDDIO) or 0x76 (if the SDO pin is pulled-
down to GND). The I^2 C interface uses the pins described in Table 2
The basic timing is shown in the diagram below:
```
**Figure 11 I2C timing diagram**

```
In one access, without stop, incremental read (address is auto increment) and auto-incremental write is
supported. The read and write access is described below:
```
**Figure 12 I2C write and read commands**

## 6.2 SPI Interface

```
The SPI interface is compatible with SPI mode '11' ( CPOL = CPHA = '1'. The SPI interface has two modes: 4-wire
and 3-wire.
The protocol is the same for both. The 3-wire mode is selected by setting '1' to the register Interrupt and FIFO
configuration (CFG_REG)
The SPI interface uses the pins like in the Table 2 Refere to Application Circuit Example for connections
instructions. The SPI protocol is shown in the diagram below:
```
**Figure 13 SPI protocol, 4-wire without interrupt**

```
Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor
```
```
Digital interfaces
```
```
Datasheet 21 v1.1
```

```
A SPI write is carried out by setting CSB low and sending a control byte followed by register data. The control
byte consist of the SPI register address ( full register address without bit 7) and the write command ( bit7 = RW =
'0'). Setting CSB high ends the transaction. The SPI write protocol is described in the diagram below.
A SPI read is initiated by setting CSB low and sending a single control byte. The control byte consist of the SPI
register address ( = full register address without bit 7) and the read command ( bit7 = RW = '1'). After writing the
control byte, data is sent out of the SDO pin ( SDI in 3-wire mode); the register address is automatically
incremented. Sending CSB high ends the SPI read transaction. The SPI read protocol is shown in the diagram
below:
```
**Figure 14 SPI write, read protocol diagrams**

## 6.3 Interface parameters specification

```
Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor
```
```
Digital interfaces
```
```
Datasheet 22 v1.1
```

## 6.3.1 General interface parameters.

The general interface parameters are given in the table below:

**Table 12 Interface parameters**

**Parameter Symbol Values Unit Note or Test
Condition
Min. Typ. Max.**

Input voltage for low logic
level at input pins

```
Vlow_in 0.3 *
VDDIO
```
```
V VDDIO=1.2V to 3.6V
```
Input voltage for high logic

level at input pins

```
Vhigh_in 0.7 *
VDDIO
```
```
V VDDIO=1.2V to 3.6V
```
Output - low level for I2C Vlow_SDI 0.1 *
VDDIO

#### V VDDIO=1.8V,

```
iol=2mA
```
Output voltage for low level
at pin SDI for I2C

```
Vlow_SDI_1.2 0.2*
VDDIO
```
#### V VDDIO=1.20V,

```
iol=1.3mA
```
Output voltage for high level
at pins SDO, SDI

```
Vhigh_out 0.8 *
VDDIO
```
#### V VDDIO=1.8V,

```
iol=1mA (SDO,
SDI)
```
Output voltage for high level

at pins SDO, SDI

```
Vhigh_out_1.2 0.6 *
VDDIO
```
#### V VDDIO=1.2V,

```
iol=1mA (SDO,
SDI)
```
Pull-up resistor Rpull 60 120 180 kohm Internal pull-up
resistance to VDDIO

I^2 C bus load capacitor Cb 400 pF On SDI and SCK

## 6.3.1.1 I2C timings

The I^2 C timing is shown in the diagram below and corresponding values are given in the table below. The
naming refers to I^2 C Specification version 2.1, the abbreviations used "S&F mode" = standard and fast mode,
"HS mode" = high speed mode, Cb = bus capacitance on SDA line.

**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor**

**Digital interfaces**

Datasheet 23 v1.1


**Figure 15 I**^2 **C timing diagram**

```
Table 13 I2C timings
```
```
Parameter Symbol Values Unit Note or Test
Condition
Min. Typ. Max.
```
```
Data setup time on SDI pin tSetup 20 ns S&F mode
```
```
5 ns HS mode
```
```
Data hold time on SDI pin tHold 0 ns S&F&HSmode,
```
```
Duty Cycle DC 70 % S&F mode,
```
```
55 % HS mode,
```
```
Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor
```
```
Digital interfaces
```
```
Datasheet 24 v1.1
```

## 6.3.1.2 SPI timings

```
The SPI timing diagram is shown in the figure below and the corresponding values are given in the table below.
All timings apply both to 4-wire and 3-wire SPI.
```
**Figure 16 SPI timing diagram**

```
Table 14 SPI timings
```
```
Parameter Symbol Values Unit Note or Test
Condition
Min. Typ. Max.
```
```
Duty Cycle (Thigh%) SPI_DC 30 % VDDIO = 1.2V
```
```
20 % VDDIO = 1.8V/3.6V
```
```
SDI setup time T_setup_sdi 2 ns
```
```
SDI hold time T_hold_sdi 2 ns
```
```
Clock SPI_CLK 10 MHz
```
```
CSB setup time T_setup_csb 15 ns
```
```
CSB hold time 15 ns
```
```
Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor
```
```
Digital interfaces
```
```
Datasheet 25 v1.1
```

## 7 Register Map.

**Table 15 Register Map**

**Register
Name**

```
Addr. bit7 bit6 bit5 bit4 bit3 bit2 bit1 bit0 Reset
State
```
PSR_B2 0x00 PSR[23:16] (r) (^00) h
PSR_B1 0x01 PSR[15:8](r) (^00) h
PSR_B0 0x02 PSR[7:0](r) (^00) h
TMP_B2 0x03 TMP[23:16] (r) (^00) h
TMP_B1 0x04 TMP[15:8] (r) (^00) h
TMP_B0 0x05 TMP[7:0] (r) (^00) h
PRS_CFG 0x06 - PM_RATE [2:0] (rw) PM_PRC [3:0] (rw) (^00) h
TMP_CFG 0x07 TMP_
EXT
(rw)
TMP_RATE [2:0] (rw) TM_PRC [3:0] (rw) (^00) h
MEAS_CFG 0x08 COEF_
RDY (r)

#### SENSOR

```
_ RDY (r)
```
#### TMP_

```
RDY (r)
```
#### PRS_

```
RDY (r)
```
- MEAS_CRTL [2:0] (rw) C0h

CFG_REG 0x09 INT_ HL
(rw)

```
INT_ SEL [2:0] (rw) TMP_
SHIFT_
EN (rw)
```
#### PRS_

#### SHIFT_

```
EN (rw)
```
#### FIFO_

```
EN (rw)
```
#### SPI_

#### MODE

```
(rw)
```
(^00) h
INT_STS 0x0A - - - - - INT_
FIFO_
FULL (r)

#### INT_

```
TMP(r)
```
#### INT_

```
PRS(r)
```
(^00) h
FIFO_STS 0x0B - - - - - - FIFO_
FULL(r)

#### FIFO_

```
EMPTY(r)
```
(^00) h
RESET 0x0C FIFO_
FLUSH
(w)
- - - SOFT_RST [3:0] (w) (^00) h
Product ID 0x0D REV_ID [3:0] (r) PROD_ID [3:0] (r) (^10) h
COEF 0x10-
0x21
< see register description > XXh
Reserved 0x22-
0x27
Reserved XXh
COEF_SRCE 0x28 TMP_C
OEF_SR
CE (r)
Reserved XXh

## 8 Register description

## 8.1 Pressure Data (PRS_Bn)

The Pressure Data registers contains the 24 bit (3 bytes) 2's complement pressure measurement value.

If the FIFO is enabled, the register will contain the FIFO pressure and/or temperature results. Otherwise, the
register contains the pressure measurement results and will not be cleared after read.

**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor**

**Register Map**

Datasheet 26 v1.1


## 8.1.1 PRS_B2

The highest byte of the three bytes measured pressure value.

PRS_B2 **Address:** (^00) H
Pressure (MSB data) **Reset value:** (^00) H
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
**PRS23 PRS22 PRS21 PRS20 PRS19 PRS18 PRS17 PRS16**
r
**Field Bits Type Description**
PRS[23:16] 7:0 r MSB of 24 bit 2 ́s complement pressure data.

## 8.1.2 PRS_B1

The middle byte of the three bytes measured pressure value.

PRS_B1 **Address:** (^01) H
Pressure (LSB data) **Reset value:** (^00) H
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
**PRS15 PRS14 PRS13 PRS12 PRS11 PRS10 PRS9 PRS8-**
r
**Field Bits Type Description**
PRS[15:8] 7:0 r LSB of 24 bit 2 ́s complement pressure data.
**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor
Register description**
Datasheet 27 v1.1


## 8.1.3 PRS_B0

The lowest byte of the three bytes measured pressure value.

PRS_B0 **Address:** (^02) H
Pressure (XLSB data) **Reset value:** (^00) H
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
**PRS7 PRS6 PRS5 PRS4 PRS3 PRS2 PRS1 PRS0**
r
**Field Bits Type Description**
PRS[7:0] 7:0 r XLSB of 24 bit 2 ́s complement pressure data.

## 8.2 Temperature Data (TMP_Tn).

The Temperature Data registers contain the 24 bit (3 bytes) 2's complement temperature measurement value
( unless the FIFO is enabled, please see FIFO operation ) and will not be cleared after the read.

## 8.2.1 TMP_B2

The highest byte of the three bytes measured temperature value.

TMP_B2 **Address:** (^03) H
Temperature (MSB data) **Reset value:** (^00) H
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
**TMP23 TMP22 TMP21 TMP20 TMP19 TMP18 TMP17 TMP16**
r
**Field Bits Type Description**
TMP[23:16] 7:0 r MSB of 24 bit 2 ́s complement temperature data.
**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor
Register description**
Datasheet 28 v1.1


## 8.2.2 TMP_B1

The middle byte of the three bytes measured temperature value.

TMP_B1 **Address:** (^04) H
Temperature (LSB data) **Reset value:** (^00) H
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
**TMP15 TMP14 TMP13 TMP12 TMP11 TMP10 TMP9 TMP8**
r
**Field Bits Type Description**
TMP[15:8] 7:0 r LSB of 24 bit 2 ́s complement temperature data.

## 8.2.3 TMP_B0

The lowest part of the three bytes measured temperature value.

TMP_B0 **Address:** (^05) H
Temperature (XLSB data) **Reset value:** (^00) H
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
**TMP7 TMP6 TMP5 TMP4 TMP3 TMP2 TMP1 TMP0**
r
**Field Bits Type Description**
TMP[7:0] 7:0 r XLSB of 24 bit 2 ́s complement temperature data.
**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor
Register description**
Datasheet 29 v1.1


## 8.3 Pressure Configuration (PRS_CFG)

Configuration of pressure measurement rate (PM_RATE) and resolution (PM_PRC).

PRS_CFG **Address:** (^06) H
Pressure measurement configuration **Reset value:** (^00) H
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0

**- PM_RATE[2:0] PM_PRC[3:0]**
    - rw rw

**Field Bits Type Description**

- 7 - Reserved.

PM_RATE[2:0] 6:4 rw Pressure measurement rate:

```
000 - 1 measurements pr. sec.
001 - 2 measurements pr. sec.
010 - 4 measurements pr. sec.
011 - 8 measurements pr. sec.
100 - 16 measurements pr. sec.
101 - 32 measurements pr. sec.
110 - 64 measurements pr. sec.
111 - 128 measurements pr. sec.
Applicable for measurements in Background mode only
```
PM_PRC[3:0] 3:0 rw Pressure oversampling rate:

```
0000 - Single. (Low Precision)
0001 - 2 times (Low Power).
0010 - 4 times.
0011 - 8 times.
0100 *)- 16 times (Standard).
0101 *) - 32 times.
0110 *) - 64 times (High Precision).
0111 *) - 128 times.
1xxx - Reserved
```
*) Note: Use in combination with a bit shift. See **Interrupt and FIFO configuration (CFG_REG)** register

**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor**

**Register description**

Datasheet 30 v1.1


**Table 16 Precision (PaRMS) and pressure measurement time (ms) versus oversampling rate**

**Oversampling
(PRC[3:0])**

```
Single
(0000)
```
```
2 times
(0001)
```
```
4 times
(0010)
```
```
8 times
(0011)
```
```
16 times
(0100)
```
```
32 times
(0101)
```
```
64 times
(0110)
```
#### 128

```
times
(0111)
```
Measurement time
(ms)

#### 3.6 5.2 8.4 14.8 27.6 53.2 104.4 206.8

Precision (PaRMS) 2.5 1 0.5 0.4 0.35 0.3 0.2

**Table 17 Estimated current consumption (uA)**

**Oversampling
(PRC[3:0])**

```
Single
(0000)
```
```
2 times
(0001)
```
```
4 times
(0010)
```
```
8 times
(0011)
```
```
16 times
(0100)
```
```
32 times
(0101)
```
```
64 times
(0110)
```
#### 128

```
times
```
**Measurements pr (0111)
sec.**

**(PM_RATE([2:0])**

**1 (000)** 2.1 2.7 3.8 6.1 11 20 38 75

**2 (001)**

**4 (010)**

**8 (011)** Note: The current consumption can be calculated as the Measurement Rate *
Current Consumption of 1 measurement per. sec.

```
n.a.
```
**16 (100)** n.a. n.a.

**32 (101)** n.a. n.a. n.a.

**64 (110)** n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.

**128 (111)** n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.

Note: The table shows the possible combinations of Pressure Measurement Rate and oversampling when no
temperature measurements are performed. When temperature measurements are performed the possible
combinations are limited to Ratetemperature x Measurement Timetemperature + Ratepressure x Measurement
Timepressure < 1 second.

The temperature measurement time versus temperature oversampling rate is similar with pressure
measurement time versus pressure oversampling rate

**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor**

**Register description**

Datasheet 31 v1.1


## 8.4 Temperature Configuration(TMP_CFG)

Configuration of temperature measurement rate (TMP_RATE) and resolution (TMP_PRC).

TMP_CFG **Address:** (^07) H
Temperature measurement configuration **Reset value:** (^00) H
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
**TMP_EXT TMP_RATE[6:4] TMP_PRC[3:0]**
rw rw - rw
**Field Bits Type Description**
TMP_EXT 7 rw Temperature measurement
0 - Internal sensor (in ASIC)
1 - External sensor (in pressure sensor MEMS element)
Note: It is highly recommended to use the same temperature
sensor as the source of the calibration coefficients. Please see the
**Coefficient Source** register
TMP_RATE[2:0] 6:4 rw Temperature measurement rate:
000 - 1 measurement pr. sec.
001 - 2 measurements pr. sec.
010 - 4 measurements pr. sec.
011 - 8 measurements pr. sec.
100 - 16 measurements pr. sec.
101 - 32 measurements pr. sec.
110 - 64 measurements pr. sec.
111 - 128 measurements pr. sec..
Applicable for measurements in Background mode only
TMP_PRC[2:0] 3:0 rw Temperature oversampling (precision):
0000 - single. (Default) - Measurement time 3.6 ms.
Note: Following are optional, and may not be relevant:
0001 - 2 times.
0010 - 4 times.
0011 - 8 times.
0100 - 16 times.
0101 - 32 times.
0110 - 64 times..
0111 - 128 times.
1xxx - Reserved.
**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor
Register description**
Datasheet 32 v1.1


## 8.5 Sensor Operating Mode and Status (MEAS_CFG)

Setup measurement mode.

MEAS_CFG **Address:** (^08) H
Measurement configuration **Reset value:** C0H
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0

#### COEF_RDY

#### SENSOR_R

#### DY

#### TMP_RDY PRS_RDY - MEAS_CTRL

```
r r r r - rw
```
**Field Bits Type Description**

COEF_RDY 7 r Coefficients will be read to the Coefficents Registers after start-
up:
0 - Coefficients are not available yet.
1 - Coefficients are available.

SENSOR_RDY 6 r The pressure sensor is running through self initialization after
start-up.
0 - Sensor initialization not complete
1 - Sensor initialization complete
It is recommend not to start measurements until the sensor has
completed the self intialization.

TMP_RDY 5 r Temperature measurement ready

```
1 - New temperature measurement is ready. Cleared when
temperature measurement is read.
```
PRS_RDY 4 r Pressure measurement ready

```
1 - New pressure measurement is ready. Cleared when
pressurement measurement is read.
```
- 3 - Reserved.

MEAS_CTRL 2:0 rw Set measurement mode and type:

```
Standby Mode
000 - Idle / Stop background measurement
Command Mode
001 - Pressure measurement
010 - Temperature measurement
011 - na.
100 - na.
Background Mode
101 - Continous pressure measurement
110 - Continous temperature measurement
111 - Continous pressure and temperature measurement
```
**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor**

**Register description**

Datasheet 33 v1.1


## 8.6 Interrupt and FIFO configuration (CFG_REG)

Configuration of interupts, measurement data shift, and FIFO enable.

CFG_REG **Address:** (^09) H
Configuration register **Reset value:** (^00) H
(^76543210)
**INT_HL INT_FIFO INT_TMP INT_PRS T_SHIFT P_SHIFT FIFO_EN SPI_MODE**
rw rw rw rw rw rw rw rw
**Field Bits Type Description**
INT_HL 7 rw Interupt (on SDO pin) active level:
0 - Active low.
1 - Active high.
INT_FIFO 6 rw Generate interupt when the FIFO is full:
0 - Disable.
1 - Enable.
INT_TMP 5 rw Generate interupt when a temperature measurement is ready:
0 - Disable.
1 - Enable.
INT_PRS 4 rw Generate interupt when a pressure measurement is ready:
0 - Disable.
1 - Enable.
T_SHIFT 3 rw Temperature result bit-shift
0 - no shift.
1 - shift result right in data register.
Note: Must be set to '1' when the oversampling rate is >8 times.
P_SHIFT 2 rw Pressure result bit-shift
0 - no shift.
1 - shift result right in data register.
Note: Must be set to '1' when the oversampling rate is >8 times.
FIFO_EN 1 rw Enable the FIFO:
0 - Disable.
1 - Enable.
SPI_MODE 0 rw Set SPI mode:
0 - 4-wire interface.
1 - 3-wire interface.
**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor
Register description**
Datasheet 34 v1.1


## 8.7 Interrupt Status (INT_STS).

Interrupt status register. The register is cleared on read.

INT_STS **Address:** 0AH

Interrupt status **Reset value:** (^00) H
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0

#### -

#### INT_FIFO_F

#### ULL

#### INT_TMP INT_PRS

- r r r

**Field Bits Type Description**

- 7:3 - Reserved.

INT_FIFO_FULL 2 r Status of FIFO interrupt

```
0 - Interrupt not active
1 - Interrupt active
```
INT_TMP 1 r Status of temperature measurement interrupt

```
0 - Interrupt not active
1 - Interrupt active
```
INT_PRS 0 r Status of pressure measurement interrupt

```
0 - Interrupt not active
1 - Interrupt active
```
**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor**

**Register description**

Datasheet 35 v1.1


## 8.8 FIFO Status (FIFO_STS).

FIFO status register

FIFO_STS **Address:** 0BH

FIFO status register **Reset value:** (^00) H
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0

**- FIFO_FULL**

#### FIFO_EMPT

#### Y

- r r

**Field Bits Type Description**

- 7:2 - Reserved.

FIFO_FULL 1 r 0 - The FIFO is not full

```
1 - The FIFO is full
```
FIFO_EMPTY 0 r 0 - The FIFO is not empty

```
1 - The FIFO is empty
```
**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor**

**Register description**

Datasheet 36 v1.1


## 8.9 Soft Reset and FIFO flush (RESET)

Flush FIFO or generate soft reset.

RESET **Address:** 0CH

FIFO flush and soft reset **Reset value:** (^00) H
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
**FIFO_FLUSH - SOFT_RST**
w - w
**Field Bits Type Description**
FIFO_FLUSH 7 w FIFO flush
1 - Empty FIFO
After reading out all data from the FIFO, write '1' to clear all old
data.

- 6:4 - Reserved.

SOFT_RST 3:0 w Write '1001' to generate a soft reset. A soft reset will run though
the same sequences as in power-on reset.

## 8.10 Product and Revision ID (ID)

Product and Revision ID.

ID **Address:** 0DH

Product and revision ID **Reset value:** 0x10H

```
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
REV_ID PROD_ID
r r
```
**Field Bits Type Description**

REV_ID 7:4 r Revision ID

PROD_ID 3:0 r Product ID

**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor**

**Register description**

Datasheet 37 v1.1


## 8.11 Calibration Coefficients (COEF)

The Calibration Coefficients register contains the 2 ́s complement coefficients that are used to calculate the

compensated pressure and temperature values.

**Table 18 Calibration Coefficients**

**Coefficient Addr. bit7 bit6 bit5 bit4 bit3 bit2 bit1 bit0**

c0 0x10 c0 [11:4]

c0/c1 0x11 c0 [3:0] c1 [11:8]

c1 0x12 c1[7:0]

c00 0x13 c00 [19:12]

c00 0x14 c00 [11:4]

c00/c10 0x15 c00 [3:0] c10 [19:16]

c10 0x16 c10 [15:8]

c10 0x17 c10 [7:0]

c01 0x18 c01 [15:8]

c01 0x19 c01 [7:0]

c11 0x1A c11 [15:8]

c11 0x1B c11 [7:0]

c20 0x1C c20 [15:8]

c20 0x1D c20 [7:0]

c21 0x1E c21 [15:8]

c21 0x1F c21 [7:0]

c30 0x20 c30 [15:8]

c30 0x21 c30 [7:0]

Note: Generate the decimal numbers out of the calibration coefficients registers data:

C20 := reg0x1D + reg0x1C * 2^ 8

if (C20 > (2^15 - 1))

C20 := C20 - 2^16

end if

C0 := (reg0x10 * 2^ 4) + ((reg0x11 / 2^4) & 0x0F)

if (C0 > (2^11 - 1))

C0 := C0 - 2^12

end if

**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor**

**Register description**

Datasheet 38 v1.1


## 8.12 Coefficient Source

States which internal temperature sensor the calibration coefficients are based on: the ASIC temperature sensor

or the MEMS element temperature sensor. The coefficients are only valid for one sensor and it is highly
recommended to use the same temperature sensor in the application. This is set-up in the Temperature
Configuration register.

TMP_COEF_SRCE **Address:** (^28) H
Temperature Coefficients Source **Reset value:** XXH
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
**TMP_COEF_
SRCE**

#### -

```
r -
```
**Field Bits Type Description**

TMP_COEF_SRCE 7 r Temperature coefficients are based on:

```
0 - Internal temperature sensor (of ASIC)
1 - External temperature sensor (of pressure sensor MEMS
element)
```
- 6:0 - Reserved

## 9 Package Dimensions.

The sensor package is a 8-pin PG-VLGA-8-2, 2.0 x 2.5 x 1.1 mm^3 , with 0.65 mm pitch.

## 9.1 Package drawing

**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor**

**Package Dimensions**

Datasheet 39 v1.1


**Figure 17 DPS368 package drawing ( side view, top view, bottom view)**

## 10 Footprint and stencil recommendation

```
The board pad and stencil aperture recommendations shown in figure below are based on Solder Mask Defined
( SMD ) pads. The specific design rules of the board manufacturer should be considered for individual design
optimization or adaptations.
```
```
Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor
```
```
Footprint and stencil recommendation
```
```
Datasheet 40 v1.1
```

**Figure 18 DPS368 footprint and stencil recommendation**

## 11 Reflow soldering and board assembly

```
The Infineon pressure sensors are qualified in accordance with the IPC/JEDEC J-STD-020D-01. The moisture
sensitivity level of pressure sensor is rated as MSL1. For PCB assembly of the sensor the widely used reflow
soldering using a forced convection oven is recommended.
The soldering profile should be in accordance with the recommendations of the solder paste manufacturer to
reach an optimal solder joint quality. The reflow profile shown in figure below is recommended for board
manufacturing with Infineon pressure sensors.
```
**Figure 19 Reflow profile**

```
Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor
```
```
Reflow soldering and board assembly
```
```
Datasheet 41 v1.1
```

**Table 19 Reflow profile limits**

**Profile feature Pb-Free assembly Sn-Pb Eutectic assembly**

Preheat/Soak

Temperature Min (Tsmin) 150 °C 100 °C

Temperature Max (Tsmax) 200 °C 150 °C

Time (Tsmin to Tsmax) (ts) 60-120 seconds 60-150 seconds

Peak Temperature (Tp) 260°C +0°C/-5°C 235°C +0°C/-5°C

Time within 5°C of actual peak
temperature (tp)*

```
20-40 seconds 10-30 seconds
```
Ramp-down rate 6 °C/second max. 6 °C/second max.

Time 25°C to peak temperature 8 minutes max. 6 minutes max.

* Tolerance for peak profile temperature (Tp) is defined as a supplier
minimum and a user maximum

Note: For further information please consult the 'General recommendation for assembly of Infineon
packages' document which is available on the Infineon Technologies web page

**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor**

**Reflow soldering and board assembly**

Datasheet 42 v1.1


The Infineon pressure sensors can be handled using industry standard pick and place equipment. Care should
be taken to avoid damage to the sensor structure as follows:

- Do not pick the sensor with vacuum tools which make contact with the sensor vent port hole
- The sensor's vent hole should not be exposed to vacuum, this can destroy or damage the MEMS
- Do not blow air into the sensor vent hole. If an air blow cleaning process is used, the vent hole must be

```
sealed to prevent particle contamination.
```
- It is recommended to perform the PCB assembly in a clean room environment in order to avoid sensor
    contamination.
- Air blow and ultrasonic cleaning procedures shall not be applied to MEMS pressure sensors. A non-clean
    paste is recommended for the assembly to avoid subsequent cleaning steps. The MEMS sensor can be
    severely damaged by cleaning substances.
- To prevent the blocking or partial blocking of vent hole during PCB assembly, it is recommended to cover
    the sound port with protective tape during PCB sawing or system assembly.
- Do not use excessive force to place the sensor on the PCB. The use of industry standard pick and place tools
    is recommended in order to limit the mechanical force exerted to the package.

## 12 Package Handling

Further Information please refer to the attached “Digital Barometric Pressure Sensor_ Package Handling”. It
describes the package handling and delivery format.

### Revision history

**Document
version**

```
Date of
release
```
```
Description of changes
```
v0.1 05.05.2017 initial release

v0.2 11.29.2017 update package dimensions

v0.3 03.04.2018 Pressure Transfer Function table update

v0.4 19.10.2018 Pressure noise values update

v1.0 01.03.2018 Features and Typical applications chapters update; Package drawing,
Footprint and stencil recommendation, Solder reflow chapters added

v1.1 03.07.2019 Title update

**Digital XENSIVTM barometric pressure sensor**

**Package Handling**

Datasheet 43 v1.1


**Trademarks**
All referenced product or service names and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

**Edition 2019-07-03
Published by
Infineon Technologies AG
81726 Munich, Germany**

**© 2019 Infineon Technologies AG**

**All Rights Reserved.**

**Do you have a question about any
aspect of this document?
Email: erratum@infineon.com**

**Document reference
IFX-duu1493988991355**

```
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The information given in this document shall in no
event be regarded as a guarantee of conditions or
characteristics (“Beschaffenheitsgarantie”).
With respect to any examples, hints or any typical values
stated herein and/or any information regarding the
application of the product, Infineon Technologies
hereby disclaims any and all warranties and liabilities of
any kind, including without limitation warranties of
non-infringement of intellectual property rights of any
third party.
In addition, any information given in this document is
subject to customer’s compliance with its obligations
stated in this document and any applicable legal
requirements, norms and standards concerning
customer’s products and any use of the product of
Infineon Technologies in customer’s applications.
The data contained in this document is exclusively
intended for technically trained staff. It is the
responsibility of customer’s technical departments to
evaluate the suitability of the product for the intended
application and the completeness of the product
information given in this document with respect to such
application.
```
```
WARNINGS
Due to technical requirements products may contain
dangerous substances. For information on the types
in question please contact your nearest Infineon
Technologies office.
Except as otherwise explicitly approved by Infineon
Technologies in a written document signed by
authorized representatives of Infineon Technologies,
Infineon Technologies’ products may not be used in
any applications where a failure of the product or
any consequences of the use thereof can reasonably
be expected to result in personal injury
```

