```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
Revision C
```
# 3 V 512M-BIT

# SERIAL SLC NAND FLASH MEMORY WITH

# DUAL/QUAD SPI

# BUFFER READ & CONTINUOUS READ


## - 1 -




- 4 - Revision C


- 1. GENERAL DESCRIPTIONS Table of Contents
- 2. FEATURES
- 3. PACKAGE TYPES AND PIN CONFIGURATIONS
   - 3.1 Pad Configuration WSON 6x5-mm / 8x6-mm
   - 3.2 Pad Description WSON 6x5-mm / 8x6-mm
   - 3.3 Pin Configuration SOIC 300-mil
   - 3.4 Pin Description SOIC 300-mil
   - 3.5 Ball Configuration TFBGA 8x6-mm (5x5 Ball Array)
   - 3.6 Ball Description TFBGA 8x6-mm
- 4. PIN DESCRIPTIONS
   - 4.1 Chip Select (/CS)
   - 4.2 Serial Data Input, Output and IOs (DI, DO and IO0, IO1, IO2, IO3)
   - 4.3 Write Protect (/WP)
   - 4.4 HOLD (/HOLD)
   - 4.5 Serial Clock (CLK)
- 5. BLOCK DIAGRAM
- 6. FUNCTIONAL DESCRIPTIONS
   - 6.1 Device Operation Flow
      - 6.1.1 Standard SPI Instructions
      - 6.1.2 Dual SPI Instructions
      - 6.1.3 Quad SPI Instructions
      - 6.1.4 Hold Function
   - 6.2 Write Protection
- 7. PROTECTION, CONFIGURATION AND STATUS REGISTERS
   - 7.1 Protection Register / Status Register-1 (Volatile Writable, OTP lockable)
      - 7.1.1 Block Protect Bits (BP3, BP2, BP1, BP0, TB) – Volatile Writable, OTP lockable
      - 7.1.2 Write Protection Enable Bit (WP-E) – Volatile Writable, OTP lockable
      - 7.1.3 Status Register Protect Bits (SRP1, SRP0) – Volatile Writable, OTP lockable
   - 7.2 Configuration Register / Status Register-2 (Volatile Writable)
      - 7.2.1 One Time Program Lock Bit (OTP-L) – OTP lockable
      - 7.2.2 Enter OTP Access Mode Bit (OTP-E) – Volatile Writable
      - 7.2.3 Status Register-1 Lock Bit (SR1-L) – OTP lockable
      - 7.2.4 ECC Enable Bit (ECC-E) – Volatile Writable
      - 7.2.5 Buffer Read / Continuous Read Mode Bit (BUF) – Volatile Writable
      - 7.2.6 Output Driver Strength (ODS-1, ODS-0) – Volatile Writable
      - 7.2.7 Hold Disable (H-DIS) - Volatile Writable
   - 7.3 Status Register-3 (Status Only)
      - 7.3.1 Look-Up Table Full (LUT-F) – Status Only
      - 7.3.2 Cumulative ECC Status (ECC-1, ECC-0) – Status Only
      - 7.3.3 Program/Erase Failure (P-FAIL, E-FAIL) – Status Only
      - 7.3.4 Write Enable Latch (WEL) – Status Only
      - 7.3.5 Erase/Program In Progress (BUSY) – Status Only
         - Publication Release Date: November 21 ,
      - 7.3.6 Reserved Bits – Non Functional - 2 - Revision C
   - 7.4 W25N512GV Status Register Memory Protection
- 8. INSTRUCTIONS
   - 8.1 Device ID and Instruction Set Tables
      - 8.1.1 Manufacturer and Device Identification
      - 8.1.2 Instruction Set Table 1 (Continuous Read, BUF = 0, xIT Default Power Up Mode)(11)
      - 8.1.3 Instruction Set Table 2 (Buffer Read, BUF = 1, xIG Default Power Up Mode)(12)
   - 8.2 Instruction Descriptions
      - 8.2.1 Device Reset (FFh), Enable Reset (66h) and Reset Device (99h)
      - 8.2.2 Read JEDEC ID (9Fh)
      - 8.2.3 Read Status Register (0Fh / 05h)
      - 8.2.4 Write Status Register (1Fh / 01h)
      - 8.2.5 Write Enable (06h)
      - 8.2. 6 Write Disable (04h)
      - 8.2.7 Bad Block Management (A1h)
      - 8.2.8 Read BBM Look Up Table (A5h)
      - 8.2.9 Last ECC Failure Page Address (A9h)
      - 8.2.10 128KB Block Erase (D8h)
      - 8.2.11 Load Program Data (02h) / Random Load Program Data (84h)
      - 8.2.12 Quad Load Program Data (32h) / Quad Random Load Program Data (34h)
      - 8.2.13 Program Execute (10h)
      - 8.2.14 Page Data Read (13h)
      - 8.2.15 Read Data (03h)
      - 8.2.16 Fast Read (0Bh)
      - 8.2.17 Fast Read with 4-Byte Address (0Ch).................................................................................
      - 8.2.18 Fast Read Dual Output (3Bh)
      - 8.2.19 Fast Read Dual Output with 4-Byte Address (3Ch)
      - 8.2.20 Fast Read Quad Output (6Bh)
      - 8.2.21 Fast Read Quad Output with 4-Byte Address (6Ch)
      - 8.2.22 Fast Read Dual I/O (BBh)
      - 8.2.23 Fast Read Dual I/O with 4-Byte Address (BCh)
      - 8.2.24 Fast Read Quad I/O (EBh)
      - 8.2.25 Fast Read Quad I/O with 4-Byte Address (ECh)
      - 8.2.26 Accessing Unique ID / Parameter / OTP Pages (OTP-E=1)
      - 8.2.27 Parameter Page Data Definitions
      - 8.2.28 Deep Power-Down (B9h)
      - 8.2.29 Release Power-Down (ABh)
      - 8.2.30 Chip Erase (C7h / 60h)
- 9. ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS()
   - 9.1 Absolute Maximum Ratings(1)
   - 9.2 Operating Ranges
   - 9.3 Power-up Power-down Timing Requirements
   - 9.4 DC Electrical Characteristics
   - 9.5 AC Measurement Conditions
   - 9.6 AC Electrical Characteristics(3)
   - 9.7 Serial Output Timing - 3 -
   - 9.8 Serial Input Timing
   - 9.9 /HOLD Timing
   - 9.10 /WP Timing
- 10. INVALID BLOCK MANAGEMENT
   - 10.1 Invalid blocks
   - 10.2 Initial invalid blocks
- 11. PACKAGE SPECIFICATIONS
   - 11.1 8 - Pad WSON 6x5-mm (Package Code P)
   - 11.2 8 - Pad WSON 8x6-mm (Package Code E)
   - 11.3 16 - Pin SOIC 300-mil (Package Code F)
   - 11.4 24 - Ball TFBGA 8x6-mm (Package Code B, 5x5-1 Ball Array)
- 12. ORDERING INFORMATION
   - 12.1 Valid Part Numbers and Top Side Marking
- 13. REVISION HISTORY
   - Publication Release Date: November 21 ,
- Figure 1a. W25N512GV Pad Assignments, 8 - pad WSON 6x5-mm / 8x6-mm (Package Code P, E) Table of Figures
- Figure 1b. W25N512GV Pin Assignments, 16-pin SOIC 300-mil (Package Code F)...................................
- Figure 1c. W25N512GV Ball Assignments, 24-ball TFBGA 8x6-mm (Package Code B)
- Figure 2. W25N512GV Flash Memory Architecture and Addressing
- Figure 3. W25N512GV Flash Memory Operation Diagram
- Figure 4a. Protection Register / Status Register-1 (Address Axh)
- Figure 4b. Configuration Register / Status Register-2 (Address Bxh)
- Figure 4c. Status Register-3 (Address Cxh)
- Figure 5a. Device Reset Instruction
- Figure 5b. Enable Reset and Reset Instruction Sequence
- Figure 6 Read JEDEC ID Instruction
- Figure 7. Read Status Register Instruction
- Figure 8. Write Status Register-1/2/3 Instruction
- Figure 9. Write Enable Instruction
- Figure 10. Write Disable Instruction
- Figure 11. Bad Block Management Instruction
- Figure 12. Read BBM Look Up Table Instruction
- Figure 13. Last ECC Failure Page Address Instruction
- Figure 14. 128KB Block Erase Instruction
- Figure 15. Load / Random Load Program Data Instruction
- Figure 16. Quad Load / Quad Random Load Program Data Instruction
- Figure 17. Program Execute Instruction
- Figure 18. Page Data Read Instruction
- Figure 19a. Read Data Instruction (Buffer Read Mode, BUF=1)
- Figure 19b. Read Data Instruction (Continuous Read Mode, BUF=0)
- Figure 20a. Fast Read Instruction (Buffer Read Mode, BUF=1)
- Figure 20b. Fast Read Instruction (Continuous Read Mode, BUF=0)
- Figure 21a. Fast Read with 4-Byte Address Instruction (Buffer Read Mode, BUF=1)
- Figure 21b. Fast Read with 4-Byte Address Instruction (Continuous Read Mode, BUF=0).......................
- Figure 22a. Fast Read Dual Output Instruction (Buffer Read Mode, BUF=1)
- Figure 22b. Fast Read Dual Output Instruction (Continuous Read Mode, BUF=0)
- Figure 23a. Fast Read Dual Output with 4-Byte Address Instruction (Buffer Read Mode, BUF=1)
- Figure 23b. Fast Read Dual Output with 4-Byte Address Instruction (Continuous Read Mode, BUF=0)
- Figure 24a. Fast Read Quad Output Instruction (Buffer Read Mode, BUF=1)
- Figure 24b. Fast Read Quad Output Instruction (Continuous Read Mode, BUF=0)
- Figure 25a. Fast Read Quad Output with 4-Byte Address Instruction (Buffer Read Mode, BUF=1)
- Figure 25b. Fast Read Quad Output with 4-Byte Address Instruction (Continuous Read Mode, BUF=0)
- Figure 26a. Fast Read Dual I/O Instruction (Buffer Read Mode, BUF=1)
- Figure 26b. Fast Read Dual I/O Instruction (Continuous Read Mode, BUF=0)..........................................
- Figure 27a. Fast Read Dual I/O with 4-Byte Address Instruction (Buffer Read Mode, BUF=1)
- Figure 27b. Fast Read Dual I/O with 4-Byte Address Instruction (Continuous Read Mode, BUF=0)
- Figure 28a. Fast Read Quad I/O Instruction (Buffer Read Mode, BUF=1) - 5 -
- Figure 28b. Fast Read Quad I/O Instruction (Continuous Read Mode, BUF=0)
- Figure 29a. Fast Read Quad I/O with 4-Byte Address Instruction (Buffer Read Mode, BUF=1)................
- Figure 29b. Fast Read Quad I/O with 4-Byte Address Instruction (Continuous Read Mode, BUF=0)
- Figure 30 Deep Power-Down Instruction
- Figure 31 Release Power-down Instruction
- Figure 32. Chip Erase Instruction
- Figure 33a. Power-up Timing and Voltage Levels
- Figure 33b. Power-up, Power-Down Requirement
- Figure 34. AC Measurement I/O Waveform
- Figure 35. Flow chart of create initial invalid block table


```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 6 - Revision C

## 1. GENERAL DESCRIPTIONS

The W25N512GV (512M-bit) Serial SLC NAND Flash Memory provides a storage solution for systems with
limited space, pins and power. The W 25 N SpiFlash family incorporates the popular SPI interface and the
traditional large NAND non-volatile memory space. They are ideal for code shadowing to RAM, executing
code directly from Dual/Quad SPI (XIP) and storing voice, text and data. The device operates on a single
2. 7 V to 3. 6 V power supply with current consumption as low as 25 mA active, 10 μA for standby and 1μA for
deep power down. All W 25 N SpiFlash family devices are offered in space-saving packages which were
impossible to use in the past for the typical NAND flash memory.

The W25N512GV 512M-bit memory array is organized into 32,768 programmable pages of 2,048-bytes
each. The entire page can be programmed at one time using the data from the 2,048-Byte internal buffer.
Pages can be erased in groups of 64 ( 128 KB block erase). The W25N512GV has 512 erasable blocks.

The W25N512GV supports the standard Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI), Dual/Quad I/O SPI: Serial Clock,
Chip Select, Serial Data I/O0 (DI), I/O1 (DO), I/O2 (/WP), and I/O3 (/HOLD). SPI clock frequencies of up to
166 MHz are supported allowing equivalent clock rates of 332 MHz ( 166 MHz x 2) for Dual I/O and 664 MHz
( 166 MHz x 4) for Quad I/O when using the Fast Read Dual/Quad I/O instructions.

The W25N512GV provides a new Continuous Read Mode that allows for efficient access to the entire
memory array with a single Read command. This feature is ideal for code shadowing applications.

A Hold pin, Write Protect pin and programmable write protection, provide further control flexibility.
Additionally, the device supports JEDEC standard manufacturer and device ID, one 2,048-Byte Unique ID
page, one 2,048-Byte parameter page and ten 2,048-Byte OTP pages. To provide better NAND flash
memory manageability, user configurable internal ECC, bad block management are also available in
W25N512GV.

## 2. FEATURES

```
 New W25N Family of SpiFlash Memories
```
- W25N512GV: 512M-bit / 64M-Byte
- Standard SPI: CLK, /CS, DI, DO, /WP, /Hold
- Dual SPI: CLK, /CS, IO 0 , IO 1 , /WP, /Hold
- Quad SPI: CLK, /CS, IO 0 , IO 1 , IO 2 , IO 3
- Compatible SPI serial flash commands
 Highest Performance Serial NAND Flash
- 166 MHz Standard/Dual/Quad SPI clocks
- 332 / 664 MHz equivalent Dual/Quad SPI
- 5 0MB/S continuous data transfer rate
- Fast Program/Erase performance
- More than 1 00 ,000 erase/program cycles(5)
- More than 10 - year data retention
 **Efficient “Continuous Read** Mode **”** (1)
- Alternative method to the Buffer Read Mode
- No need to issue “Page Data Read”
between Read commands
- Allows direct read access to the entire array

```
 Low Power, Wide Temperature Range
```
- Single 2 .7 to 3. 6 V supply
- 25mA active, 10 μA standby, 1μA DPD(4)
- - 40°C to +85°C operating range

```
 Flexible Architecture with 128 KB blocks
```
- Uniform 128K-Byte Block Erase
- Flexible page data load methods
 Advanced Features
- On chip 1 - Bit ECC for memory array
- ECC status bits indicate ECC results^
- bad block management and LUT(^2 ) access
- Software and Hardware Write-Protect
- Power Supply Lock-Down and OTP protection
- 2KB Unique ID and 2KB parameter pages
- Ten 2KB OTP pages(3)
 Space Efficient Packaging
- 8 - pad WSON 6x5-mm
- 8 - pad WSON 8x6-mm
- 16 - pin SOIC 300-mil
- 24 - ball TFBGA 8x6-mm
- Contact Winbond for other package options
Notes:
1. Only the Read command structures are different between
the “Continuous Read Mode (BUF=0)” and the “Buffer
Read Mode (BUF=1)”, all other commands are identical.
W25N512GVxIG: Default BUF=1 after power up
W25N512GVxIT: Default BUF=0 after power up
2. LUT stands for Look-Up Table.
3. OTP pages can only be programmed.
4. DPD stands for Deep Power Down.
5. Endurance specification is based on the on-chip ECC or
1bit/528 byte ECC(Error Correcting Code)


##### - 7 -

## 3. PACKAGE TYPES AND PIN CONFIGURATIONS

```
W25N512GV is offered in an 8-pad WSON 6x5-mm (package code P), 8x6-mm (package code E), a 16-
pin SOIC 300-mil (package code F) and two 24-ball 8x6-mm TFBGA (package code B) packages as shown
in Figure 1a-c respectively. Package diagrams and dimensions are illustrated at the end of this datasheet.
```
### 3.1 Pad Configuration WSON 6x5-mm / 8x6-mm

```
Figure 1a. W25N512GV Pad Assignments, 8-pad WSON 6x5-mm / 8x6-mm (Package Code P, E)
```
### 3.2 Pad Description WSON 6x5-mm / 8x6-mm

```
PAD NO. PAD NAME I/O FUNCTION
1 /CS I Chip Select Input
2 DO (IO1) I/O Data Output (Data Input Output 1)(1)
3 /WP (IO2) I/O Write Protect Input ( Data Input Output 2)(2)
4 GND Ground
5 DI (IO0) I/O Data Input (Data Input Output 0)(1)
6 CLK I Serial Clock Input
7 /HOLD (IO3) I/O Hold Input (Data Input Output 3)(2)
8 VCC Power Supply
```
```
Notes:
```
1. IO0 and IO1 are used for Standard and Dual SPI instructions
2. IO 0 – IO3 are used for Quad SPI instructions, /WP & /HOLD functions are only available for Standard/Dual SPI.

#### 1

#### 2

#### 3

#### 4

#### /CS

#### DO (IO 1 )

#### /WP (IO 2 )

#### GND

#### VCC

#### /HOLD (IO 3 )

#### DI (IO 0 )

#### CLK

#### Top View

#### 8

#### 7

#### 6

#### 5


```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 8 - Revision C

### 3.3 Pin Configuration SOIC 300-mil

## Figure 1b. W25N512GV Pin Assignments, 16-pin SOIC 300-mil (Package Code F)...................................

### 3.4 Pin Description SOIC 300-mil

```
PIN NO. PIN NAME I/O FUNCTION
1 /HOLD (IO3) I/O Hold Input (Data Input Output 3)(2)
2 VCC Power Supply
3 N/C No Connect
4 N/C No Connect
5 N/C No Connect
6 N/C No Connect
7 /CS I Chip Select Input
8 DO (IO1) I/O Data Output (Data Input Output 1)(1)
9 /WP (IO2) I/O Write Protect Input (Data Input Output 2)(2)
10 GND Ground
11 N/C No Connect
12 N/C No Connect
13 N/C No Connect
14 N/C No Connect
15 DI (IO0) I/O Data Input (Data Input Output 0)(1)
16 CLK I Serial Clock Input
```
```
Notes:
```
1. IO0 and IO1 are used for Standard and Dual SPI instructions
2. IO0 – IO3 are used for Quad SPI instructions, /WP & /HOLD functions are only available for Standard/Dual SPI.

##### 1

##### 2

##### 3

##### 4

##### /CS

##### DO (IO 1 ) /WP (IO 2 )

##### GND

##### VCC

##### /HOLD (IO 3 )

##### DI (IO 0 )

##### CLK

```
Top View
```
##### NC

##### NC

##### NC

##### NC

##### NC

##### NC

##### NC

##### 5 NC

##### 6

##### 7

##### 8

##### 10

##### 9

##### 11

##### 12

##### 13

##### 14

##### 15

##### 16


##### - 9 -

### 3.5 Ball Configuration TFBGA 8x6-mm (5x5 Ball Array)

## Figure 1c. W25N512GV Ball Assignments, 24-ball TFBGA 8x6-mm (Package Code B)

### 3.6 Ball Description TFBGA 8x6-mm

```
BALL NO. PIN NAME I/O FUNCTION
B2 CLK I Serial Clock Input
B3 GND Ground
B4 VCC Power Supply
C2 /CS I Chip Select Input
C4 /WP (IO2) I/O Write Protect Input (Data Input Output 2)(2)
D2 DO (IO1) I/O Data Output (Data Input Output 1)(1)
D3 DI (IO0) I/O Data Input (Data Input Output 0)(1)
D4 /HOLD (IO3) I/O Hold Input (Data Input Output 3)(2)
Multiple NC No Connect
```
```
Notes:
```
1. IO0 and IO1 are used for Standard and Dual SPI instructions
2. IO0 – IO3 are used for Quad SPI instructions, /WP & /HOLD functions are only available for Standard/Dual SPI.


```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 10 - Revision C

## 4. PIN DESCRIPTIONS

### 4.1 Chip Select (/CS)

The SPI Chip Select (/CS) pin enables and disables device operation. When /CS is high the device is
deselected and the Serial Data Output (DO, or IO0, IO1, IO2, IO3) pins are at high impedance. When
deselected, the devices power consumption will be at standby levels unless an internal erase, program or
write status register cycle is in progress. When /CS is brought low the device will be selected, power
consumption will increase to active levels and instructions can be written to and data read from the device.
After power-up, /CS must transition from high to low before a new instruction will be accepted. The /CS
input must track the VCC supply level at power-up and power-down (see “Write Protection” and Figure
33 b). If needed, a pull-up resistor on the /CS pin can be used to accomplish this.

### 4.2 Serial Data Input, Output and IOs (DI, DO and IO0, IO1, IO2, IO3)

The W25N512GV supports standard SPI, Dual SPI and Quad SPI operation. Standard SPI instructions use
the unidirectional DI (input) pin to serially write instructions, addresses or data to the device on the rising
edge of the Serial Clock (CLK) input pin. Standard SPI also uses the unidirectional DO (output) to read data
or status from the device on the falling edge of CLK.

Dual and Quad SPI instructions use the bidirectional IO pins to serially write instructions, addresses or data
to the device on the rising edge of CLK and read data or status from the device on the falling edge of CLK.

### 4.3 Write Protect (/WP)

The Write Protect (/WP) pin can be used to prevent the Status Register from being written. Used in
conjunction with the Status Register’s Block Protect bits BP[3:0] and Status Register Protect SRP bits
SRP[1:0], a portion as small as one 128KB Block or up to the entire memory array can be hardware
protected. The WP-E bit in the Protection Register (SR-1) controls the functions of the /WP pin.

When WP-E=0, the device is in the Software Protection mode that only SR-1 can be protected. The /WP
pin functions as a data I/O pin for the Quad SPI operations, as well as an active low input pin for the Write
Protection function for SR-1. Refer to section 7.1.3 for detail information.

When WP-E=1, the device is in the Hardware Protection mode that /WP becomes a dedicated active low
input pin for the Write Protection of the entire device. If /WP is tied to GND, all “Write/Program/Erase”
functions are disabled. The entire device (including all registers, memory array, OTP pages) will become
read-only. Quad SPI read operations are also disabled when WP-E is set to 1.

### 4.4 HOLD (/HOLD)

During Standard and Dual SPI operations, the /HOLD pin allows the device to be paused while it is actively
selected. When /HOLD is brought low, while /CS is low, the DO pin will be at high impedance and signals
on the DI and CLK pins will be ignored (don’t care). When /HOLD is brought high, device operation can
resume. The /HOLD function can be useful when multiple devices are sharing the same SPI signals. The
/HOLD pin is active low.

When a Quad SPI Read/Buffer Load command is issued, /HOLD pin will become a data I/O pin for the
Quad operations and no HOLD function is available until the current Quad operation finishes. /HOLD (IO3)
must be driven high by the host, or an external pull-up resistor must be placed on the PCB, in order to avoid
allowing the /HOLD input to float.

### 4.5 Serial Clock (CLK)

The SPI Serial Clock Input (CLK) pin provides the timing for serial input and output operations. ("See SPI
Operations")


##### - 11 -

## 5. BLOCK DIAGRAM

## Figure 2. W25N512GV Flash Memory Architecture and Addressing

```
Page
Structure
(2,112-Byte)
```
```
Sector 0
512 - Byte
```
```
Sector 1
512 - Byte
```
```
Sector 2
512 - Byte
```
```
Sector 3
512 - Byte
```
```
Spare 0
16 - Byte
```
```
Spare 1
16 - Byte
```
```
Spare 2
16 - Byte
```
```
Spare 3
16 - Byte
```
```
Column
Address 000h --1FFh 200h --3FFh 400h --5FFh 600h --7FFh800h --80Fh810h --81Fh820h --82Fh830h --83Fh
```
```
Byte
Definition
```
```
Bad Block
Marker
```
```
User Data
II
```
```
User Data
I
```
```
ECC for
Sector 0
```
```
ECC for
Spare
Byte
Address^0123456789 A B C D E F
```
```
Main Memory Array (2,048-Byte)
ECC Protected Spare Area (64-Byte)
```
```
No ECC
Protection
```
```
ECC
Protected
```
```
ECC for
Byte 4 to Byte D
```
```
Block ( 64 Pages, 64 X 2 KB)^6644 BX^
```
#### Main Array

```
Data Buffer ( 2 , 048 Byte) B^6 y^4 te^
```
(^51)
(^2)
Blo
ck
s (^) X
(^6)
(^4) P
ag
es
( (^32)
, (^76)
(^8) P
ag
es
)
Pa
ge
(^) A
dd
re
ss
(^) P
A[
(^14)
: (^0) ]
2 , 112 Bytes
Column Address CA[ 11 : 0 ]
Address Bits 31302928272625242322212019181716151413121110 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
SpiFlash (up to 128M-Bit) X X X X X X X X
SpiFlash (up to 32G-Bit)
X X X X X
X X X X X Ext
**Page Address (PA) [14:0]
Serial NAND (512M-Bit)** 128KB Block Addr (1024 Blocks)
**Column Address (CA) [11:0]**
Page Addr (64 Pages) Byte Address (0-2047 Byte)
64KB Block Addr (256 Blocks) Page Address (256 Pages) Byte Address (0-255 Byte)
64KB Block Address Page Address (256 Pages) Byte Address (0-255 Byte)


```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 12 - Revision C

## 6. FUNCTIONAL DESCRIPTIONS

### 6.1 Device Operation Flow

```
Power Up
(default BUF=1, ECC-E=1)
```
```
Initialization &
Default Page Load (00) ~500us
```
```
Load Page xx
Y tRD~50us
```
```
N
```
```
Start “Buffer Read” with column address
(Page 00 or Page xx)
```
```
Read
page 00?
```
```
Set BUF=
```
```
Load Page yy
tRD~50us
```
```
Start “Continuous Read” from column 0
(Page yy)
```
```
Power Up
(default BUF=0, ECC-E=1)
```
```
Initialization &
Default Page Load (00) ~500us
```
```
Load Page xx
Y tRD~50us
```
```
N
```
```
Start “Continuous Read” from column 0
(Page 00 or Page xx)
```
```
Read
page 00?
```
```
Set BUF=
```
```
Load Page yy
tRD~50us
```
```
Start “Buffer Read” with column address
(Page yy)
```
#### W25N512GVxIG W25N512GVxIT

## Figure 3. W25N512GV Flash Memory Operation Diagram

#### 6.1.1 Standard SPI Instructions

The W25N512GV is accessed through an SPI compatible bus consisting of four signals: Serial Clock (CLK),
Chip Select (/CS), Serial Data Input (DI) and Serial Data Output (DO). Standard SPI instructions use the DI
input pin to serially write instructions, addresses or data to the device on the rising edge of CLK. The DO
output pin is used to read data or status from the device on the falling edge of CLK.

SPI bus operation Mode 0 (0,0) and 3 (1,1) are supported. The primary difference between Mode 0 and
Mode 3 concerns the normal state of the CLK signal when the SPI bus master is in standby and data is not
being transferred to the Serial Flash. For Mode 0, the CLK signal is normally low on the falling and rising
edges of /CS. For Mode 3, the CLK signal is normally high on the falling and rising edges of /CS.

#### 6.1.2 Dual SPI Instructions

The W25N512GV supports Dual SPI operation when using instructions such as “Fast Read Dual Output
(3Bh)” and “Fast Read Dual I/O (BBh)”. These instructions allow data to be transferred to or from the device
at two to three times the rate of ordinary Serial Flash devices. The Dual SPI Read instructions are ideal for
quickly downloading code to RAM upon power-up (code-shadowing) or for executing non-speed-critical


##### - 13 -

code directly from the SPI bus (XIP). When using Dual SPI instructions, the DI and DO pins become
bidirectional I/O pins: IO0 and IO1.

#### 6.1.3 Quad SPI Instructions

The W25N512GV supports Quad SPI operation when using instructions such as “Fast Read Quad Output
(6Bh/6Ch)”, “Fast Read Quad I/O (EBh/ECh)” and “Quad Program Data Load (32h/34h)”. These instructions
allow data to be transferred to or from the device four to six times the rate of ordinary Serial Flash. The
Quad Read instructions offer a significant improvement in continuous and random access transfer rates
allowing fast code-shadowing to RAM or execution directly from the SPI bus (XIP). When using Quad SPI
instructions the DI and DO pins become bidirectional IO0 and IO1, and the /WP and /HOLD pins become
IO2 and IO3 respectively.

#### 6.1.4 Hold Function

For Standard SPI and Dual SPI operations, the /HOLD signal allows the W25N512GV operation to be
paused while it is actively selected (when /CS is low). The /HOLD function may be useful in cases where
the SPI data and clock signals are shared with other devices. For example, consider if the page buffer was
only partially written when a priority interrupt requires use of the SPI bus. In this case the /HOLD function
can save the state of the instruction and the data in the buffer so programming can resume where it left off
once the bus is available again. The /HOLD function is only available for standard SPI and Dual SPI
operation, not during Quad SPI. When a Quad SPI command is issued, /HOLD pin will act as a dedicated
IO pin (IO3).

To initiate a /HOLD condition, the device must be selected with /CS low. A /HOLD condition will activate on
the falling edge of the /HOLD signal if the CLK signal is already low. If the CLK is not already low the /HOLD
condition will activate after the next falling edge of CLK. The /HOLD condition will terminate on the rising
edge of the /HOLD signal if the CLK signal is already low. If the CLK is not already low the /HOLD condition
will terminate after the next falling edge of CLK. During a /HOLD condition, the Serial Data Output (DO) is
high impedance, and Serial Data Input (DI) and Serial Clock (CLK) are ignored. The Chip Select (/CS)
signal should be kept active (low) for the full duration of the /HOLD operation to avoid resetting the internal
logic state of the device.


```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 14 - Revision C

### 6.2 Write Protection

Applications that use non-volatile memory must take into consideration the possibility of noise and other
adverse system conditions that may compromise data integrity. To address this concern, the W25N512GV
provides several means to protect the data from inadvertent writes.

 Device resets when VCC is below threshold
 Write enable/disable instructions and automatic write disable after erase or program
 Software and Hardware (/WP pin) write protection using Protection Register (SR-1)
 Lock Down write protection for Protection Register (SR-1) until the next power-up

 One Time Program (OTP) write protection for memory array using Protection Register (SR-1)
 Hardware write protection using /WP pin when WP-E is set to 1

Upon power-up or at power-down, the W25N512GV will maintain a reset condition while VCC is below the
threshold value of VWI, (See Power-up Timing and Voltage Levels and Figure 33 a). While reset, all
operations are disabled and no instructions are recognized. During power-up and after the VCC voltage
exceeds VWI, all program and erase related instructions are further disabled for a time delay of tPUW. This
includes the Write Enable, Program Execute, Block Erase, Chip Erase and the Write Status Register
instructions. Note that the chip select pin (/CS) must track the VCC supply level at power-up until the VCC-
min level and tVSL time delay is reached, and it must also track the VCC supply level at power-down to
prevent adverse command sequence. If needed a pull-up resister on /CS can be used to accomplish this.

After power-up the device is automatically placed in a write-disabled state with the Status Register Write
Enable Latch (WEL) set to a 0. A Write Enable instruction must be issued before a Program Execute, Block
Erase, Chip Erase or Bad Block Management instruction will be accepted. After completing a program or
erase instruction the Write Enable Latch (WEL) is automatically cleared to a write-disabled state of 0.

Software controlled write protection is facilitated using the Write Status Register instruction and setting the
Status Register Protect (SRP0, SRP1) and Block Protect (TB, BP[ 3 :0]) bits. These settings allow a portion
or the entire memory array to be configured as read only. Used in conjunction with the Write Protect (/WP)
pin, changes to the Status Register can be enabled or disabled under hardware control. See Protection
Register section for further information.

The WP-E bit in Protection Register (SR-1) is used to enable the hardware protection. When WP-E is set
to 1, bringing /WP low in the system will block any Write/Program/Erase command to the W25N512GV, the
device will become read-only. The Quad SPI operations are also disabled when WP-E is set to 1.


##### - 15 -

## 7. PROTECTION, CONFIGURATION AND STATUS REGISTERS

Three Status Registers are provided for W25N512GV: Protection Register (SR-1), Configuration Register
(SR-2) & Status Register (SR-3). Each register is accessed by Read Status Register and Write Status
Register commands combined with 1-Byte Register Address respectively.

The Read Status Register instruction (05h / 0Fh) can be used to provide status on the availability of the
flash memory array, whether the device is write enabled or disabled, the state of write protection, Read
modes, Protection Register/OTP area lock status, Erase/Program results, ECC usage/status. The Write
Status Register instruction can be used to configure the device write protection features, Software/Hardware
write protection, Read modes, enable/disable ECC, Protection Register/OTP area lock. Write access to the
Status Register is controlled by the state of the non-volatile Status Register Protect bits (SRP0, SRP1), the
Write Enable instruction, and when WP-E is set to 1, the /WP pin.

### 7.1 Protection Register / Status Register-1 (Volatile Writable, OTP lockable)

## Figure 4a. Protection Register / Status Register-1 (Address Axh)

#### 7.1.1 Block Protect Bits (BP3, BP2, BP1, BP0, TB) – Volatile Writable, OTP lockable

The Block Protect bits (BP3, BP2, BP1, BP0 & TB) are volatile read/write bits in the status register- 1 (S 6 ,
S 5 , S4, S3 & S2) that provide Write Protection control and status. Block Protect bits can be set using the
Write Status Register Instruction. All, none or a portion of the memory array can be protected from Program
and Erase instructions (see Status Register Memory Protection table). The default values for the Block
Protection bits are 1 after power up to protect the entire array. If the SR1-L bit in the Configuration Register
(SR-2) is set to 1, the default values will the values that are OTP locked.

##### S 7 S 6 S 5 S 4 S 3 S 2 S 1 S 0

```
SRP 0 BP 3 BP 2 BP 1 BP 0 TB
```
```
Status Register Protect- 0
(Volatile Writable, OTP Lock)
```
```
Top/Bottom Protect Bit
(Volatile Writable, OTP Lock)
```
```
Block Protect Bits
(Volatile Writable, OTP Lock)
```
```
WP-E SRP 1
```
```
Status Register Protect- 1
(Volatile Writable, OTP Lock)
```
```
/WP Enable Bit
(Volatile Writable, OTP Lock)
```

```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 16 - Revision C

#### 7.1.2 Write Protection Enable Bit (WP-E) – Volatile Writable, OTP lockable

The Write Protection Enable bit (WP-E) is a volatile read/write bits in the status register-1 (S1). The WP-E
bit, in conjunction with SRP1 & SRP0, controls the method of write protection: software protection, hardware
protection, power supply lock-down or one time programmable (OTP) protection, /WP pin functionality, and
Quad SPI operation enable/disable. When WP-E = 0 (default value), the device is in Software Protection
mode, /WP & /HOLD pins are multiplexed as IO pins, and Quad program/read functions are enabled all the
time. When WP-E is set to 1, the device is in Hardware Protection mode, all Quad functions are disabled
and /WP & /HOLD pins become dedicated control input pins.

#### 7.1.3 Status Register Protect Bits (SRP1, SRP0) – Volatile Writable, OTP lockable

The Status Register Protect bits (SRP1 and SRP0) are volatile read/write bits in the status register (S 0 and
S7). The SRP bits control the method of write protection: software protection, hardware protection, power
supply lock-down or one time programmable (OTP) protection.

```
Software Protection (Driven by Controller, Quad Program/Read is enabled)
```
```
SRP1 SRP0 WP-E /WP / IO2 Descriptions
```
0 0 0 X (^) /WP pin will always function as IO2No /WP functionality^
0 1 0 0 SR-/WP pi1 cannot be changen will function as IO2 for d^ (/WP = 0 during Write Status)Quad operations
0 1 0 1
SR-1 can be changed (/WP = 1 during Write Status)
/WP pin will function as IO2 for Quad operations
1 0 0 X Power Lock Down
(1) SR- 1
/WP pin will always function as IO
1 1 0 X Enter OTP mode to protect SR/WP pin will always function as IO2-1 (allow SR1 - L=1)^
Hardware Protection (System Circuit / PCB layout, Quad Program/Read is disabled)
SRP1 SRP0 WP-E /WP only Descriptions
0 X 1 VCC SR-1 can be changed
1 0 1 VCC Power Lock-Down(1) SR- 1
1 1 1 VCC Enter OTP mode to protect SR-1 (allow SR1-L=1)
X X 1 GND All "Write/Program/Erase" commands are blockedEntire device (SRs, Array, OTP area) is read-only
Notes:

1. When SRP1, SRP0 = (1, 0), a power-down, power-up cycle will change SRP1, SRP0 to (0, 0) state.


##### - 17 -

### 7.2 Configuration Register / Status Register-2 (Volatile Writable)

##### S 7 S 6 S 5 S 4 S 3 S 2 S 1 S 0

```
BUF
```
```
Output Driver Strength
(Volatile Writable)
```
```
Enter OTP Mode
(Volatile Writable)
```
```
Hold Disable
(Volatile Writable)
```
```
Buffer Mode
(Volatile Writable)
```
```
OTP Data Pages Lock
(OTP Lock)
```
```
OTP-L OTP-E ECC-E ODS- 1
```
```
Enable ECC
(Volatile Writable)
```
```
SR 1 - L ODS- 0 H-DIS
```
```
Status Register- 1 Lock
(OTP Lock)
```
## Figure 4b. Configuration Register / Status Register-2 (Address Bxh)

#### 7.2.1 One Time Program Lock Bit (OTP-L) – OTP lockable

In addition to the main memory array, W25N512GV also provides an OTP area for the system to store
critical data that cannot be changed once it’s locked. The OTP area consists of 1 0 pages of 2,112-Byte
each. The default data in the OTP area are FFh. Only Program command can be issued to the OTP area
to change the data from “1” to “0”, and data is not reversible (“0” to “1”) by the Erase command. Once the
correct data is programmed in and verified, the system developer can set OTP-L bit to 1, so that the entire
OTP area will be locked to prevent further alteration to the data.

#### 7.2.2 Enter OTP Access Mode Bit (OTP-E) – Volatile Writable

The OTP-E bit must be set to 1 in order to use the standard Program/Read commands to access the OTP
area as well as to read the Unique ID / Parameter Page information. The default value after power up or a
RESET command is 0.

#### 7.2.3 Status Register-1 Lock Bit (SR1-L) – OTP lockable

The SR1-L lock bit is used to OTP lock the values in the Protection Register (SR-1). Depending on the
settings in the SR-1, the device can be configured to have a portion of or up to the entire array to be write-
protected, and the setting can be OTP locked by setting SR1-L bit to 1. SR1-L bit can only be set to 1
permanently when SRP1 & SRP0 are set to (1,1), and OTP Access Mode must be entered (OTP-E=1) to
execute the programming. Please refer to 8.2.26 for detailed information.


```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 18 - Revision C

#### 7.2.4 ECC Enable Bit (ECC-E) – Volatile Writable

W25N512GV has a built-in ECC algorithm that can be used to preserve the data integrity. Internal ECC
calculation is done during page programming, and the result is stored in the extra 64-Byte area for each
page. During the data read operation, ECC engine will verify the data values according to the previously
stored ECC information and to make necessary corrections if needed. The verification and correction status
is indicated by the ECC Status Bits. ECC function is enabled by default when power on (ECC-E=1), and it
will not be reset to 0 by the Device Reset command.

#### 7.2.5 Buffer Read / Continuous Read Mode Bit (BUF) – Volatile Writable

W25N512GV provides two different modes for read operations, Buffer Read Mode (BUF=1) and Continuous
Read Mode (BUF=0). Prior to any Read operation, a Page Data Read command is needed to initiate the
data transfer from a specified page in the memory array to the Data Buffer. By default, after power up, the
data in page 0 will be automatically loaded into the Data Buffer and the device is ready to accept any read
commands.

The Buffer Read Mode (BUF=1) requires a Column Address to start outputting the existing data inside the
Data Buffer, and once it reaches the end of the data buffer (Byte 2, 111 ), DO (IO1) pin will become high-Z
state.

The Continuous Read Mode (BUF=0) doesn’t require the starting Column Address. The device will always
start output the data from the first column (Byte 0) of the Data buffer, and once the end of the data buffer
(Byte 2,048) is reached, the data output will continue through the next memory page. With Continuous
Read Mode, it is possible to read out the entire memory array using a single read command. Please refer
to respective command descriptions for the dummy cycle requirements for each read commands under
different read modes.

For W25N512GVxIG part number, the default value of BUF bit after power up is 1. BUF bit can be written
to 0 in the Status Register-2 to perform the Continuous Read operation.

For W25N512GVxIT part number, the default value of BUF bit after power up is 0. BUF bit can be written
to 1 in the Status Register-2 to perform the Buffer Read operation.

```
BUF ECC-E Read Mode^
(Starting from Buffer)
```
```
ECC Status Data Output Structure
```
```
1 0 Buffer Read N/A 2,048 + 64
```
```
1 1 Buffer Read Page based 2,048 + 64
```
```
0 0 Continuous Read N/A 2,
```
```
0 1 Continuous Read Operation based 2,
```

##### - 19 -

#### 7.2.6 Output Driver Strength (ODS-1, ODS-0) – Volatile Writable

```
ODS-1, ODS- 0 Output Driver Strength
```
```
0, 0 100%
```
```
0, 1 75%
```
```
1, 0 50% (default)
```
```
1, 1 25%
```
#### 7.2.7 Hold Disable (H-DIS) - Volatile Writable

When the Hold Disable (H-DIS) bit set to 1, the hold function would be disabled. If the user wants to use
the hold function, the H-DIS bit has to be set 0.


```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 20 - Revision C

### 7.3 Status Register-3 (Status Only)

## Figure 4c. Status Register-3 (Address Cxh)

#### 7.3.1 Look-Up Table Full (LUT-F) – Status Only

To facilitate the NAND flash memory bad block management, the W25N512GV is equipped with an internal
Bad Block Management Look-Up-Table (BBM LUT). Up to 1 0 bad memory blocks may be replaced by a
good memory block respectively. The addresses of the blocks are stored in the internal Look-Up Table as
Logical Block Address (LBA, the bad block) & Physical Block Address (PBA, the good block). The LUT-F
bit indicates whether the 10 memory block links have been fully utilized or not. The default value of LUT-F
is 0, once all 1 0 links are used, LUT-F will become 1, and no more memory block links may be established.

#### 7.3.2 Cumulative ECC Status (ECC-1, ECC-0) – Status Only

ECC function is used in NAND flash memory to correct limited memory errors during read operations. The
ECC Status Bits (ECC-1, ECC-0) should be checked after the completion of a Read operation to verify the
data integrity. The ECC Status bits values are don’t care if ECC-E=0. These bits will be cleared to 0 after a
power cycle or a RESET command.

##### S 7 S 6 S 5 S 4 S 3 S 2 S 1 S 0

```
Write Enable Latch
(Status-Only)
```
```
(R) ECC- 1 ECC- 0 P-FAIL E-FAIL WEL BUSY
```
```
Reserved
```
```
ECC Status Bit[ 1 : 0 ]
(Status-Only)
```
```
Program Failure
(Status-Only)
Erase Failure
(Status-Only)
```
```
Operation In Progress
(Status-Only)
```
```
BBM LUT Full
(Status Only)
```
```
LUT-F
```

##### - 21 -

```
ECC Status
Descriptions
ECC- 1 ECC- 0
0 0 Entire data output is successful, without any ECC correction.
```
```
0 1 Entire data output is successful, with 1~4 bit/page ECC corrections in either a
single page or multiple pages.
```
```
1 0
```
```
Entire data output contains more than 4 bits errors only in a single page
which cannot be repaired by ECC.
In the Continuous Read Mode, an additional command can be used to read out
the Page Address (PA) which had the errors.
```
```
1 1
```
Entire data output contains more than 4 bits errors/page in multiple pages.
In the Continuous Read Mode, the additional command can only provide the
last Page Address (PA) that had failures, the user cannot obtain the PAs for
other failure pages. Data is not suitable to use.
Notes:

1. ECC-1,ECC-0 = (1,1) is only applicable during Continuous Read operation (BUF=0).

#### 7.3.3 Program/Erase Failure (P-FAIL, E-FAIL) – Status Only

The Program/Erase Failure Bits are used to indicate whether the internally-controlled Program/Erase
operation was executed successfully or not. These bits will also be set respectively when the Program or
Erase command is issued to a locked or protected memory array or OTP area. Both bits will be cleared at
the beginning of the Program Execute or Block/Chip Erase instructions as well as the device RESET
instruction.

#### 7.3.4 Write Enable Latch (WEL) – Status Only

Write Enable Latch (WEL) is a read only bit in the status register (S1) that is set to 1 after executing a Write
Enable Instruction. The WEL status bit is cleared to 0 when the device is write disabled. A write disable
state occurs upon power-up or after any of the following instructions: Write Disable, Program Execute,
Block/Chip Erase, Page Data Read, Program Execute and Bad Block Management for OTP pages.

#### 7.3.5 Erase/Program In Progress (BUSY) – Status Only

BUSY is a read only bit in the status register (S0) that is set to a 1 state when the device is powering up or
executing a Page Data Read, Bad Block Management, Program Execute, Block/Chip Erase, Program
Execute for OTP area, OTP Locking or after a Continuous Read instruction. During this time the device will
ignore further instructions except for the Read Status Register and Read JEDEC ID instructions. When the
program, erase or write status register instruction has completed, the BUSY bit will be cleared to a 0 state
indicating the device is ready for further instructions.

#### 7.3.6 Reserved Bits – Non Functional - 2 - Revision C

There are a few reserved Status Register bits that may be read out as a “0” or “1”. It is recommended to
ignore the values of those bits. During a “Write Status Register” instruction, the Reserved Bits can be written
as “0”, but there will not be any effects.


```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 22 - Revision C

### 7.4 W25N512GV Status Register Memory Protection

```
STATUS REGISTER(1) W25N512GV (512M-BIT / 64M-BYTE) MEMORY PROTECTION(2)
```
TB BP3 BP2 BP1 BP0 PROTECTEDBLOCK(S)

```
PROTECTED
PAGE ADDRESS
PA[15:0]
```
```
PROTECTED
DENSITY
```
```
PROTECTED
PORTION
```
```
X 0 0 0 0 NONE NONE NONE NONE
```
```
0 0 0 0 1 511 7FC 0 h - 7 FFFh 128 KB Upper 1/512
0 0 0 1 0 510 & 511 7F80h - 7 FFFh 256KB Upper 1/256
```
```
0 0 0 1 1 508 thru 511 7F00h - 7 FFFh 512KB Upper 1/128
0 0 1 0 0 504 thru 511 7E00h - 7 FFFh 1MB Upper 1/64
```
```
0 0 1 0 1 496 thru 511 7C00h - 7 FFFh 2MB Upper 1/32
0 0 1 1 0 480 thru 511 7800h - 7 FFFh 4MB Upper 1/16
```
```
0 0 1 1 1 448 thru 511 7000h - 7 FFFh 8MB Upper 1/8
0 1 0 0 0 384 thru 511 6000h - 7 FFFh 16MB Upper 1/4
```
```
0 1 0 0 1 256 thru 511 4000h - 7 FFFh 32MB Upper 1/2
```
```
1 0 0 0 1 0 0000h - 00 3Fh 128KB Lower 1/512
```
```
1 0 0 1 0 0 & 1 0000h - 007 Fh 256KB Lower 1/256
1 0 0 1 1 0 thru 3 0000h - 00 FFh 512KB Lower 1/128
```
```
1 0 1 0 0 0 thru 7 0000h - 01 FFh 1MB Lower 1/64
1 0 1 0 1 0 thru 15 0000h - 03FFh 2MB Lower 1/32
```
```
1 0 1 1 0 0 thru 31 0000h - 07 FFh 4MB Lower 1/16
1 0 1 1 1 0 thru 63 0000h - 0 FFFh 8MB Lower 1/8
```
```
1 1 0 0 0 0 thru 127 0000h - 1 FFFh 16MB Lower 1/4
1 1 0 0 1 0 thru 255 0000h - 3 FFFh 32MB Lower 1/2
```
```
X 1 0 1 X 0 thru 511 0000h - 7 FFFh 64MB ALL
X 1 1 X X 0 thru 511 0000h - 7 FFFh 64MB ALL
```
```
Notes:
```
1. X = don’t care
2. If any Erase or Program command specifies a memory region that contains protected data portion, this command will be ignored.


##### - 23 -

## 8. INSTRUCTIONS

The Standard/Dual/Quad SPI instruction set of the W25N512GV consists of 31 basic instructions that are
fully controlled through the SPI bus (see Instruction Set Table1, 2). Instructions are initiated with the falling
edge of Chip Select (/CS). The first byte of data clocked into the DI input provides the instruction code.
Data on the DI input is sampled on the rising edge of clock with most significant bit (MSB) first.

Instructions vary in length from a single byte to several bytes and may be followed by address bytes, data
bytes, dummy bytes (don’t care), and in some cases, a combination. Instructions are completed with the
rising edge of edge /CS. Clock relative timing diagrams for each instruction are included in Figures 5 through
32. All read instructions can be completed after any clocked bit. However, all instructions that Write,
Program or Erase must complete on a byte boundary (/CS driven high after a full 8-bits have been clocked)
otherwise the instruction will be ignored. This feature further protects the device from inadvertent writes.
Additionally, while the device is performing Program or Erase operation, BBM management, Page Data
Read or OTP locking operations, BUSY bit will be high, and all instructions except for Read Status Register
or Read JEDEC ID will be ignored until the current operation cycle has completed.

### 8.1 Device ID and Instruction Set Tables

#### 8.1.1 Manufacturer and Device Identification

```
MANUFACTURER ID (MF7 - MF0)
```
```
Winbond Serial Flash EFh
```
```
Device ID (ID15 -^ ID0)^
```
```
W25N512GV AA 20 h
```

```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 24 - Revision C

#### 8.1.2 Instruction Set Table 1 (Continuous Read, BUF = 0, xIT Default Power Up Mode)(11)

Commands OpCode Byte2 Byte3 Byte4 Byte5 Byte6 Byte7 Byte8 Byte9
Device RESET FFh^
JEDEC ID 9Fh Dummy EFh AAh 20 h
Read Status Register 0Fh / 05h SR Addr S7- 0 S7- 0 S7- 0 S7- 0 S7- 0 S7- 0 S7- 0
Write Status Register 1Fh / 01h SR Addr S7- 0
Write Enable 06h
Write Disable 04h
BB Management
(Swap Blocks) A1h^ LBA^ LBA^ PBA^ PBA^
Read BBM LUT A5h^ Dummy LBA0 LBA0 PBA0 PBA0 LBA1 LBA1 PBA1
Last ECC failure
Page Address A9h^ Dummy^ PA15-^8 PA7-^0
Block Erase D8h Dummy PA15- 8 PA7- 0
Program Data Load
(Reset Buffer) 02h^ CA15-^8 CA7-^0 Data-^0 Data-^1 Data-^2 Data-^3 Data-^4 Data-^5
Random Program
Data Load 84h^ CA15-^8 CA7-^0 Data-^0 Data-^1 Data-^2 Data-^3 Data-^4 Data-^5
Quad Program
Data Load (Reset Buffer) 32h^ CA15-^8 CA7-^0 Data-0 / 4^ Data-1 / 4^ Data-^2 / 4^ Data-^3 / 4^ Data-^4 / 4^ Data-^5 / 4^
Random Quad Program
Data Load 34h^ CA15-^8 CA7-^0 Data-0 / 4^ Data-1 / 4^ Data-^2 / 4^ Data-^3 / 4^ Data-^4 / 4^ Data-^5 / 4^
Program Execute 10h Dummy PA15- 8 PA7- 0
Page Data Read 13h Dummy PA15- 8 PA7- 0
Read 03h Dummy Dummy Dummy D7- 0 D7- 0 D7- 0 D7- 0 D7- 0
Fast Read 0Bh Dummy Dummy Dummy Dummy D7- 0 D7- 0 D7- 0 D7- 0
Fast Read
with 4-Byte Address 0Ch^ Dummy^ Dummy^ Dummy^ Dummy^ Dummy^ D7-^0 D7-^0 D7-^0
Fast Read Dual Output 3Bh^ Dummy Dummy Dummy Dummy D7- 0 / 2 D7- 0 / 2 D7- 0 / 2 D7- 0 / 2
Fast Read Dual Output
with 4-Byte Address 3Ch^ Dummy^ Dummy^ Dummy^ Dummy^ Dummy^ D7-^0 / 2^ D7-^0 / 2^ D7-^0 / 2^
Fast Read Quad Output 6Bh Dummy Dummy Dummy Dummy D7- 0 / 4 D7- 0 / 4 D7- 0 / 4 D7- 0 / 4
Fast Read Quad Output
with 4-Byte Address 6Ch^ Dummy^ Dummy^ Dummy^ Dummy^ Dummy^ D7-^0 / 4^ D7-^0 / 4^ D7-^0 / 4^
Fast Read Dual I/O BBh^ Dummy / 2 Dummy / 2 Dummy / 2 Dummy / 2 D7- 0 / 2 D7- 0 / 2 D7- 0 / 2 D7- 0 / 2
Fast Read Dual I/O
with 4-Byte Address BCh^ Dummy / 2^ Dummy / 2^ Dummy / 2^ Dummy / 2^ Dummy / 2^ D7-^0 / 2^ D7-^0 / 2^ D7-^0 / 2^
Fast Read Quad I/O EBh Dummy / 4 Dummy / 4 Dummy / 4 Dummy / 4 Dummy / 4 Dummy / 4 D7- 0 / 4 D7- 0 / 4
Fast Read Quad I/O
with 4-Byte Address ECh^ Dummy / 4^ Dummy / 4^ Dummy / 4^ Dummy / 4^ Dummy / 4^ Dummy / 4^ Dummy / 4^ D7-^0 / 4^
Deep Power-Down B9h^
Release Power-Down ABh
Chip Erase C7h/60h
Enable Reset 66h
Reset Device 99h


##### - 25 -

#### 8.1.3 Instruction Set Table 2 (Buffer Read, BUF = 1, xIG Default Power Up Mode)(12)

Commands OpCode Byte2 Byte3 Byte4 Byte5 Byte6 Byte7 Byte8 Byte9
Device RESET FFh^
JEDEC ID 9Fh Dummy EFh AAh 20 h
Read Status Register 0Fh / 05h SR Addr S7- 0 S7- 0 S7- 0 S7- 0 S7- 0 S7- 0 S7- 0
Write Status Register 1Fh / 01h SR Addr S7- 0
Write Enable 06h
Write Disable 04h
BB Management
(Swap Blocks) A1h^ LBA^ LBA^ PBA^ PBA^
Read BBM LUT A5h^ Dummy LBA0 LBA0 PBA0 PBA0 LBA1 LBA1 PBA1
Last ECC failure
Page Address A9h^ Dummy^ PA15-^8 PA7-^0
Block Erase D8h Dummy PA15- 8 PA7- 0
Program Data Load
(Reset Buffer) 02h^ CA15-^8 CA7-^0 Data-^0 Data-^1 Data-^2 Data-^3 Data-^4 Data-^5
Random Program
Data Load 84h^ CA15-^8 CA7-^0 Data-^0 Data-^1 Data-^2 Data-^3 Data-^4 Data-^5
Quad Program
Data Load (Reset Buffer) 32h^ CA15-^8 CA7-^0 Data-0 / 4^ Data-1 / 4^ Data-^2 / 4^ Data-^3 / 4^ Data-^4 / 4^ Data-^5 / 4^
Random Quad Program
Data Load 34h^ CA15-^8 CA7-^0 Data-0 / 4^ Data-1 / 4^ Data-^2 / 4^ Data-^3 / 4^ Data-^4 / 4^ Data-^5 / 4^
Program Execute 10h Dummy PA15- 8 PA7- 0
Page Data Read 13h Dummy PA15- 8 PA7- 0
Read 03h CA15- 8 CA7- 0 Dummy D7- 0 D7- 0 D7- 0 D7- 0 D7- 0
Fast Read 0Bh CA15- 8 CA7- 0 Dummy D7- 0 D7- 0 D7- 0 D7- 0 D7- 0
Fast Read
with 4-Byte Address 0Ch^ CA15-^8 CA7-^0 Dummy^ Dummy^ Dummy^ D7-^0 D7-^0 D7-^0
Fast Read Dual Output 3Bh^ CA15-^8 CA7-^0 Dummy D7- 0 / 2 D7- 0 / 2 D7- 0 / 2 D7- 0 / 2 D7- 0 / 2
Fast Read Dual Output
with 4-Byte Address 3Ch^ CA15-^8 CA7-^0 Dummy^ Dummy^ Dummy^ D7-^0 / 2^ D7-^0 / 2^ D7-^0 / 2^
Fast Read Quad Output 6Bh CA15- 8 CA7- 0 Dummy D7- 0 / 4 D7- 0 / 4 D7- 0 / 4 D7- 0 / 4 D7- 0 / 4
Fast Read Quad Output
with 4-Byte Address 6Ch^ CA15-^8 CA7-^0 Dummy^ Dummy^ Dummy^ D7-^0 / 4^ D7-^0 / 4^ D7-^0 / 4^
Fast Read Dual I/O BBh^ CA15-^8 / 2^ CA7-^0 / 2^ Dummy / 2 D7- 0 / 2 D7- 0 / 2 D7- 0 / 2 D7- 0 / 2 D7- 0 / 2
Fast Read Dual I/O
with 4-Byte Address BCh^ CA15-^8 / 2^ CA7-^0 / 2^ Dummy / 2^ Dummy / 2^ Dummy / 2^ D7-^0 / 2^ D7-^0 / 2^ D7-^0 / 2^
Fast Read Quad I/O EBh CA15- 8 / 4 CA7- 0 / 4 Dummy / 4 Dummy / 4 D7- 0 / 4 D7- 0 / 4 D7- 0 / 4 D7- 0 / 4
Fast Read Quad I/O
with 4-Byte Address ECh^ CA15-^8 / 4^ CA7-^0 / 4^ Dummy / 4^ Dummy / 4^ Dummy / 4^ Dummy / 4^ Dummy / 4^ D7-^0 / 4^
Deep Power-Down B9h^
Release Power-Down ABh
Chip Erase C7h/60h
Enable Reset 66h
Reset Device 99h


```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 26 - Revision C

Notes:

1. Output designates data output from the device.
2. Column Address (CA) only requires CA[11:0], CA[15:12] are considered as dummy bits.
3. Page Address (PA) requires 1 5 bits. PA[1 4 :6] is the address for 128KB blocks (total 512 blocks), PA[5:0] is
    the address for 2KB pages (total 64 pages for each block).
4. Logical and Physical Block Address (LBA & PBA) each consists of 16 bits. LBA[9:0] & PBA[9:0] are effective
    Block Addresses. LBA[15:14] is used for additional information.
5. Status Register Addresses:
    Status Register 1 / Protection Register: Addr = Axh
    Status Register 2 / Configuration Register: Addr = Bxh
    Status Register 3 / Status Register: Addr = Cxh
6. Dual SPI Address Input (CA15-8 / 2 and CA7-0 / 2) format:
    IO0 = x, x, CA10, CA8, CA6, CA4, CA2, CA0
    IO1 = x, x, CA11, CA9, CA7, CA5, CA3, CA1
7. Dual SPI Data Output (D7-0 / 2) format:
    IO0 = D6, D4, D2, D0, ......
    IO1 = D7, D5, D3, D1, ......
8. Quad SPI Address Input (CA15-8 / 4 and CA7-0 / 4) format:
    IO0 = x, CA8, CA4, CA0
    IO1 = x, CA9, CA5, CA1
    IO2 = x, CA10, CA6, CA2
    IO3 = x, CA11, CA7, CA3
9. Quad SPI Data Input/Output (D7-0 / 4) format:
    IO0 = D4, D0, ......
    IO1 = D5, D1, ......
    IO2 = D6, D2, ......
    IO3 = D7, D3, ......
10. All Quad Program/Read commands are disabled when WP-E bit is set to 1 in the Protection Register.
11. For all Read operations in the Continuous Read Mode, once the /CS signal is brought to high to terminate
    the read operation, the device will still remain busy for ~5us (BUSY=1, tRD3), and all the data inside the
    Data Buffer will be lost and un-reliable to use. A new Page Data Read instruction must be issued to reload
    the correct page data into the Data Buffer.
12. For all Read operations in the Buffer Read Mode, as soon as /CS signal is brought to high to terminate the
    read operation, the device will be ready to accept new instructions and all the data inside the Data Buffer will
    remain unchanged from the previous Page Data Read instruction.


##### - 27 -

### 8.2 Instruction Descriptions

#### 8.2.1 Device Reset (FFh), Enable Reset (66h) and Reset Device (99h)

Because of the small package and the limitation on the number of pins, the W25N512GV provide a software
Reset instruction instead of a dedicated RESET pin. Once the Reset instruction is accepted, any on-going
internal operations will be terminated and the device state bits will follow the below table. Once the Reset
command is accepted by the device, the device will take approximately tRST to reset, depending on the
current operation the device is performing, tRST can be 5us~500us. During this period, no command will
be accepted.

Data corruption may happen if there is an on-going internal Erase or Program operation when Reset
command sequence is accepted by the device. It is recommended to check the BUSY bit in Status Register
before issuing the Reset command.

## Figure 5a. Device Reset Instruction

## Figure 5b. Enable Reset and Reset Instruction Sequence

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
Instruction (FFh)
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
```
```
Instruction (99h)
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3
```
```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
```
```
Instruction (66h)
```
```
High Impedance
```

```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 28 - Revision C

Default values of the Status Registers after power up and Device Reset


##### - 29 -

#### 8.2.2 Read JEDEC ID (9Fh)

The Read JEDEC ID instruction is compatible with the JEDEC standard for SPI compatible serial memories
that was adopted in 2003. The instruction is initiated by driving the /CS pin low and shifting the instruction
code “9Fh” followed by 8 dummy clocks. The JEDEC assigned Manufacturer ID byte for Winbond (EFh)
and two Device ID bytes are then shifted out on the falling edge of CLK with most significant bit (MSB) first
as shown in Figure 6. For memory type and capacity values refer to Manufacturer and Device Identification
table.

```
7
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 15 16 24 38
```
```
8 Dummy
Clocks
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3
```
```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0
```
```
Instruction
```
```
9 Fh
```
```
EFh AAh 20 h
```
```
23 31 32
```
```
* = MSB
*
```
* *

```
Mfr. ID Device ID
```
## Figure 6 Read JEDEC ID Instruction


```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 30 - Revision C

#### 8.2.3 Read Status Register (0Fh / 05h)

The Read Status Register instructions allow the 8-bit Status Registers to be read. The instruction is entered
by driving /CS low and shifting the instruction code “0Fh or 05h” into the DI pin on the rising edge of CLK
followed by an 8-bit Status Register Address. The status register bits are then shifted out on the DO pin at
the falling edge of CLK with most significant bit (MSB) first as shown in Figure 7. Refer to section 7.1- 3 for
Status Register descriptions.

The Read Status Register instruction may be used at any time, even while a Program or Erase cycle is in
progress. This allows the BUSY status bit to be checked to determine when the cycle is complete and if the
device can accept another instruction. The Status Register can be read continuously. The instruction is
completed by driving /CS high.

```
7
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 15 16 17
```
```
SR Address
```
```
SR Value[ 7 : 0 ]
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3
```
```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0
```
```
Instruction
```
```
0 Fh / 05 h
```
```
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
```
```
18 19 20 21 22 23
```
```
7 6 1 0
```
## Figure 7. Read Status Register Instruction


##### - 31 -

#### 8.2.4 Write Status Register (1Fh / 01h)

The Write Status Register instruction allows the Status Registers to be written. The writable Status Register
bits include: SRP[1: 0 ], TB, BP[3:0] and WP-E bit in Status Register-1; OTP-L, OTP-E, SR1-L, ECC-E and
BUF bit in Status Register- 2. All other Status Register bit locations are read-only and will not be affected
by the Write Status Register instruction.

To write the Status Register bits, the instruction is entered by driving /CS low, sending the instruction code
“1Fh or 01h”, followed by an 8-bit Status Register Address, and then writing the status register data byte
as illustrated in Figure 8.

Refer to section 7.1- 3 for Status Register descriptions. After power up, factory default for BP[3:0], TB, ECC-
E bits are 1, while other bits are 0.

```
7
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 15 16 17
```
```
SR Address SR Value[ 7 : 0 ]
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3
```
```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0
```
```
Instruction
```
```
1 Fh / 01 h 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
```
```
18 19 20 21 22 23
```
```
7 6 1 0
```
## Figure 8. Write Status Register-1/2/3 Instruction


```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 32 - Revision C

#### 8.2.5 Write Enable (06h)

The Write Enable instruction (Figure 9 ) sets the Write Enable Latch (WEL) bit in the Status Register to a 1.
The WEL bit must be set prior to every Page Program, Quad Page Program, Block Erase, Chip Erase and
Bad Block Management instruction. The Write Enable instruction is entered by driving /CS low, shifting the
instruction code “06h” into the Data Input (DI) pin on the rising edge of CLK, and then driving /CS high.

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
Instruction ( 06 h)
```
## Figure 9. Write Enable Instruction

#### 8.2. 6 Write Disable (04h)

The Write Disable instruction (Figure 10 ) resets the Write Enable Latch (WEL) bit in the Status Register to
a 0. The Write Disable instruction is entered by driving /CS low, shifting the instruction code “04h” into the
DI pin and then driving /CS high. Note that the WEL bit is automatically reset after Power-up and upon
completion of the Page Program, Quad Page Program, Block Erase, Chip Erase, Reset and Bad Block
Management instructions.

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
Instruction ( 04 h)
```
## Figure 10. Write Disable Instruction


##### - 33 -

#### 8.2.7 Bad Block Management (A1h)

Due to large NAND memory density size and the technology limitation, NAND memory devices are allowed
to be shipped to the end customers with certain amount of “Bad Blocks” found in the factory testing. Up to
2% of the memory blocks can be marked as “Bad Blocks” upon shipment, which is a maximum of 10 blocks
for W25N512GV. In order to identify these bad blocks, it is recommended to scan the entire memory array
for bad block markers set in the factory. A “Bad Block Marker” is a non-FFh data byte stored at Byte 0 of
Page 0 for each bad block. An additional marker is also stored in the first byte of the 64-Byte spare area.

W25N512GV offers a convenient method to manage the bad blocks typically found in NAND flash memory
after extensive use. The “Bad Block Management” command is initiated by shifting the instruction code
“A1h” into the DI pin and followed by the 16-bit “Logical Block Address” and 16-bit “Physical Block Address”
as illustrated in Figure 11. A Write Enable instruction must be executed before the device will accept the
Bad Block Management Instructions (Status Register bit WEL= 1). The logical block address is the address
for the “bad” block that will be replaced by the “good” block indicated by the physical block address.

Once a Bad Block Management command is successfully executed, the specified LBA-PBA link will be
added to the internal Look Up Table (LUT). Up to 10 links can be established in the non-volatile LUT. If all
1 0 links have been written, the LUT-F bit in the Status Register will become a 1, and no more LBA-PBA
links can be established. Therefore, prior to issuing the Bad Block Management command, the LUT-F bit
value can be checked or a “Read BBM Look Up Table” command can be issued to confirm if spare links
are still available in the LUT.

Registering the same address in multiple PBAs is prohibited. It may cause unexpected behavior.

```
7
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 15 23
```
```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0
```
```
Instruction
```
```
A 1 h
```
```
31
```
```
[ 15 : 8 ] [ 7 : 0 ] [ 15 : 8 ] [ 7 : 0 ]
```
```
16 24 32 39
```
```
LBA PBA
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3
```
## Figure 11. Bad Block Management Instruction


```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 34 - Revision C

#### 8.2.8 Read BBM Look Up Table (A5h)

The internal Look Up Table (LUT) consists of 10 Logical-Physical memory block links (from LBA0/PBA0 to
LBA9/PBA9). The “Read BBM Look Up Table” command can be used to check the existing address links
stored inside the LUT.

The “Read BBM Look Up Table” command is initiated by shifting the instruction code “A5h” into the DI pin
and followed by 8-bit dummy clocks, at the falling edge of the 1 6 th clocks, the device will start to output the
16 - bit “Logical Block Address” and the 16-bit “Physical Block Address” as illustrated in Figure 12. All block
address links will be output sequentially starting from the first link (LBA0 & PBA0) in the LUT. If there are
available links that are unused, the output will contain all “ 00 h” data.

The MSB bits LBA[15:14] of each link are used to indicate the status of the link.

##### LBA[15]

```
(Enable)
```
##### LBA[14]

```
(Invalid) Descriptions^
```
```
0 0 This link is available to use.
```
```
1 0 This link is enabled and it is a valid link.
```
```
1 1 This link was enabled, but it is not valid any more.
```
```
0 1 Not applicable.
```
```
7
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 15 23
```
```
8 Dummy
Clocks
```
```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0
```
```
Instruction
```
```
A 5 h
```
```
31
```
```
LBA 0
```
```
* = MSB
*
```
* *

```
[ 15 : 8 ] [ 7 : 0 ] [ 15 : 8 ] [ 7 : 0 ] [ 15 : 8 ]
```
```
PBA 0
```
```
16 24 32 39 40 47 48
```
## Figure 12. Read BBM Look Up Table Instruction


##### - 35 -

#### 8.2.9 Last ECC Failure Page Address (A9h)

To better manage the data integrity, W25N512GV implements internal ECC correction for the entire
memory array. When the ECC-E bit in the Status/Configuration Register is set to 1 (also power up default),
the internal ECC algorithm is enabled for all Program and Read operations. During a “Program Execute”
command for a specific page, the ECC algorithm will calculate the ECC information based on the data
inside the 2K-Byte data buffer and write the ECC data into the extra 64-Byte ECC area in the same physical
memory page.

During the Read operations, ECC information will be used to verify the data read out from the physical
memory array and possible corrections can be made to limited amount of data bits that contain errors. The
ECC Status Bits (ECC-1 & ECC-0) will also be set indicating the result of ECC calculation.

For the “Continuous Read Mode (BUF=0)” operation, multiple pages of main array data can be read out
continuously by issuing a single read command. Upon finishing the read operation, the ECC status bits
should be check to verify if there’s any ECC correction or un-correctable errors existed in the read out data.
If ECC-1 & ECC-0 equal to (1, 0) or (1, 1), the previous read out data contain one or more pages that
contain ECC un-correctable errors. The failure page address (or the last page address if it’s multiple pages)
can be obtained by issuing the “Last ECC failure Page Address” command as illustrated in Figure 13. The
16 - bit Page Address that contains un-correctable ECC errors will be presented on the DO pin following the
instruction code “A9h” and 8-bit dummy clocks on the DI pin.

```
7
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 15 16 17 29 30 31
```
```
15 14 13 2 1 0
```
```
8 Dummy
Clocks
```
```
Page Address[ 15 : 0 ]
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3
```
```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0
```
```
Instruction
A 9 h
```
## Figure 13. Last ECC Failure Page Address Instruction


```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 36 - Revision C

#### 8.2.10 128KB Block Erase (D8h)

The 128KB Block Erase instruction sets all memory within a specified block ( 64 - Pages, 128K-Bytes) to the
erased state of all 1s (FFh). A Write Enable instruction must be executed before the device will accept the
Block Erase Instruction (Status Register bit WEL must equal 1). The instruction is initiated by driving the
/CS pin low and shifting the instruction code “D8h” followed by 8-bit dummy clocks and the 16-bit page
address. The Block Erase instruction sequence is shown in Figure 14.

The /CS pin must be driven high after the eighth bit of the last byte has been latched. If this is not done the
Block Erase instruction will not be executed. After /CS is driven high, the self-timed Block Erase instruction
will commence for a time duration of tBE (See AC Characteristics). While the Block Erase cycle is in
progress, the Read Status Register instruction may still be accessed for checking the status of the BUSY
bit. The BUSY bit is a 1 during the Block Erase cycle and becomes a 0 when the cycle is finished and the
device is ready to accept other instructions again. After the Block Erase cycle has finished the Write Enable
Latch (WEL) bit in the Status Register is cleared to 0. The Block Erase instruction will not be executed if
the addressed block is protected by the Block Protect (TB, BP2, BP1, and BP0) bits.^

```
7
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 15 16 17 29 30 31
```
```
15 14 13 2 1 0
```
```
8 Dummy
Clocks
```
```
Page Address[ 15 : 0 ]
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3
```
```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0
```
```
Instruction
```
```
D 8 h
```
## Figure 14. 128KB Block Erase Instruction


##### - 37 -

#### 8.2.11 Load Program Data (02h) / Random Load Program Data (84h)

The Program operation allows from one byte to 2, 112 bytes (a page) of data to be programmed at previously
erased (FFh) memory locations. A Program operation involves two steps: 1. Load the program data into
the Data Buffer. 2. Issue “Program Execute” command to transfer the data from Data Buffer to the specified
memory page.

A Write Enable instruction must be executed before the device will accept the Load Program Data
Instructions (Status Register bit WEL= 1). The “Load Program Data” or “Random Load Program Data”
instruction is initiated by driving the /CS pin low then shifting the instruction code “02h” or “84h” followed by
a 16 - bit column address (only CA[11:0] is effective) and at least one byte of data into the DI pin. The /CS
pin must be held low for the entire length of the instruction while data is being sent to the device. If the
number of data bytes sent to the device exceeds the number of data bytes in the Data Buffer, the extra
data will be ignored by the device. The Load Program Data instruction sequence is shown in Figure 15.

Both “Load Program Data” and “Random Load Program Data” instructions share the same command
sequence. The difference is that “Load Program Data” instruction will reset the unused the data bytes in
the Data Buffer to FFh value, while “Random Load Program Data” instruction will only update the data bytes
that are specified by the command input sequence, the rest of the Data Buffer will remain unchanged.

If internal ECC algorithm is enabled, all 2,112 bytes of data will be accepted, but the bytes designated for
ECC parity bits in the extra 64 bytes section will be overwritten by the ECC calculation. If the ECC-E bit is
set to a 0 to disable the internal ECC, the extra 64 bytes section can be used for external ECC purpose or
other usage.^

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 7
```
```
Instruction
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 21 22 23
```
```
02 h / 84 h 15 14 13 2 1 0
```
```
Column Address[ 15 : 0 ]
```
```
24
```
```
7 6 1 0 7 6 1 0 7
```
```
Data- 0 Data- 1
```
```
24 30 31 32 38 39
```
```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
7
```
```
0 7 6 1 0
```
```
40
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3
```
```
Data- 2111
```
## Figure 15. Load / Random Load Program Data Instruction


```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 38 - Revision C

#### 8.2.12 Quad Load Program Data (32h) / Quad Random Load Program Data (34h)

The “Quad Load Program Data” and “Quad Random Load Program Data” instructions are identical to the
“Load Program Data” and “Random Load Program Data” in terms of operation sequence and functionality.
The only difference is that “Quad Load” instructions will input the data bytes from all four IO pins instead of
the single DI pin. This method will significantly shorten the data input time when a large amount of data
needs to be loaded into the Data Buffer. The instruction sequence is illustrated in Figure 16.

Both “Quad Load Program Data” and “Quad Random Load Program Data” instructions share the same
command sequence. The difference is that “Quad Load Program Data” instruction will reset the unused the
data bytes in the Data Buffer to FFh value, while “Quad Random Load Program Data” instruction will only
update the data bytes that are specified by the command input sequence, the rest of the Data Buffer will
remain unchanged.

When WP-E bit in the Status Register is set to a 1, all Quad SPI instructions are disabled.^

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 7
```
```
Instruction
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 23 24 25
```
```
32 h / 34 h 15 0
```
```
Data
0
```
```
26 27
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
IO 2
```
```
High Impedance
6 2
```
```
/Hold
(IO 3 )
```
```
High
7 3
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
Data
1
```
```
Data
2111
```
```
Column
Addr[ 15 : 0 ]
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3
```
## Figure 16. Quad Load / Quad Random Load Program Data Instruction


##### - 39 -

#### 8.2.13 Program Execute (10h)

The Program Execute instruction is the second step of the Program operation. After the program data are
loaded into the 2, 112 - Byte Data Buffer (or 2,048 bytes when ECC is enabled), the Program Execute
instruction will program the Data Buffer content into the physical memory page that is specified in the
instruction. The instruction is initiated by driving the /CS pin low then shifting the instruction code “ 10 h”
followed by 8 - bit dummy clocks and the 16-bit Page Address into the DI pin as shown in Figure 17.

After /CS is driven high to complete the instruction cycle, the self-timed Program Execute instruction will
commence for a time duration of tpp (See AC Characteristics). While the Program Execute cycle is in
progress, the Read Status Register instruction may still be used for checking the status of the BUSY bit.
The BUSY bit is a 1 during the Program Execute cycle and becomes a 0 when the cycle is finished and the
device is ready to accept other instructions again. After the Program Execute cycle has finished, the Write
Enable Latch (WEL) bit in the Status Register is cleared to 0. The Program Execute instruction will not be
executed if the addressed page is protected by the Block Protect (TB, BP2, BP1, and BP0) bits. Only 4
partial page program times are allowed on every single page.

The pages within the block have to be programmed sequentially from the lower order page address to the
higher order page address within the block. Programming pages out of sequence is prohibited.^

```
7
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 15 16 17 29 30 31
```
```
15 14 13 2 1 0
```
```
8 Dummy
Clocks
```
```
Page Address[ 15 : 0 ]
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3
```
```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0
```
```
Instruction
```
```
10 h
```
## Figure 17. Program Execute Instruction


```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 40 - Revision C

#### 8.2.14 Page Data Read (13h)

The Page Data Read instruction will transfer the data of the specified memory page into the 2,112-Byte
Data Buffer. The instruction is initiated by driving the /CS pin low then shifting the instruction code “ 13 h”
followed by 8 - bit dummy clocks and the 16-bit Page Address into the DI pin as shown in Figure 18.

After /CS is driven high to complete the instruction cycle, the self-timed Read Page Data instruction will
commence for a time duration of tRD (See AC Characteristics). While the Read Page Data cycle is in
progress, the Read Status Register instruction may still be used for checking the status of the BUSY bit.
The BUSY bit is a 1 during the Read Page Data cycle and becomes a 0 when the cycle is finished and the
device is ready to accept other instructions again.

After the 2,112 bytes of page data are loaded into the Data Buffer, several Read instructions can be issued
to access the Data Buffer and read out the data. Depending on the BUF bit setting in the Status Register,
either “Buffer Read Mode” or “Continuous Read Mode” may be used to accomplish the read operations.^

```
7
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 15 16 17 29 30 31
```
```
15 14 13 2 1 0
```
```
8 Dummy
Clocks
```
```
Page Address[ 15 : 0 ]
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3
```
```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0
```
```
Instruction
```
```
13 h
```
## Figure 18. Page Data Read Instruction


##### - 41 -

#### 8.2.15 Read Data (03h)

The Read Data instruction allows one or more data bytes to be sequentially read from the Data Buffer after
executing the Read Page Data instruction. The Read Data instruction is initiated by driving the /CS pin low
and then shifting the instruction code “03h” followed by the 16 - bit Column Address and 8-bit dummy clocks
or a 24 - bit dummy clocks into the DI pin. After the address is received, the data byte of the addressed Data
Buffer location will be shifted out on the DO pin at the falling edge of CLK with most significant bit (MSB)
first. The address is automatically incremented to the next higher address after each byte of data is shifted
out allowing for a continuous stream of data. The instruction is completed by driving /CS high.

The Read Data instruction sequence is shown in Figure 19 a & 1 9 b. When BUF=1, the device is in the Buffer
Read Mode. The data output sequence will start from the Data Buffer location specified by the 16-bit Column
Address and continue to the end of the Data Buffer. Once the last byte of data is output, the output pin will
become Hi-Z state. When BUF=0, the device is in the Continuous Read Mode, the data output sequence
will start from the first byte of the Data Buffer and increment to the next higher address. When the end of
the Data Buffer is reached, the data of the first byte of next memory page will be following and continues
through the entire memory array. This allows using a single Read instruction to read out the entire memory
array and is also compatible to Winbond’s SpiFlash NOR flash memory command sequence.

#### * = MSB

#### *

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 7
```
```
Instruction
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 21 22 23
```
```
15 14 13
```
```
1 0
```
```
03 h 2 1 0
```
```
Column Address[ 15 : 0 ]^8 CDluomckmsy^
```
```
7 6 7 6 1 0 7
```
```
Data Out 1 Data Out 2
```
#### * *

```
31 32 38 39 40 46 47
```
## Figure 19a. Read Data Instruction (Buffer Read Mode, BUF=1)

```
* = MSB
*
```
```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 7
```
```
Instruction
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 29 30
```
```
23 22 21
```
```
1 0
```
```
03 h 2 1 0
```
```
24 Dummy Clocks
```
```
7 6 7 6 1 0 7
```
```
Data Out 1 Data Out 2
```
* *

```
31 32 38 39 40 46 47
```
## Figure 19b. Read Data Instruction (Continuous Read Mode, BUF=0)


```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 42 - Revision C

#### 8.2.16 Fast Read (0Bh)

The Fast Read instruction allows one or more data bytes to be sequentially read from the Data Buffer after
executing the Read Page Data instruction. The Fast Read instruction is initiated by driving the /CS pin low
and then shifting the instruction code “0Bh” followed by the 16 - bit Column Address and 8-bit dummy clocks
or a 32 - bit dummy clocks into the DI pin. After the address is received, the data byte of the addressed Data
Buffer location will be shifted out on the DO pin at the falling edge of CLK with most significant bit (MSB)
first. The address is automatically incremented to the next higher address after each byte of data is shifted
out allowing for a continuous stream of data. The instruction is completed by driving /CS high.

The Fast Read instruction sequence is shown in Figure 20a & 20b. When BUF=1, the device is in the Buffer
Read Mode. The data output sequence will start from the Data Buffer location specified by the 16-bit Column
Address and continue to the end of the Data Buffer. Once the last byte of data is output, the output pin will
become Hi-Z state. When BUF=0, the device is in the Continuous Read Mode, the data output sequence
will start from the first byte of the Data Buffer and increment to the next higher address. When the end of
the Data Buffer is reached, the data of the first byte of next memory page will be following and continues
through the entire memory array. This allows using a single Read instruction to read out the entire memory
array and is also compatible to Winbond’s SpiFlash NOR flash memory command sequence.

#### * = MSB

#### *

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 7
```
```
Instruction
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 21 22 23
```
```
15 14 13
```
```
1 0
```
```
0 Bh 2 1 0
```
```
Column Address[ 15 : 0 ]^8 CDluomckmsy^
```
```
7 6 7 6 1 0 7
```
```
Data Out 1 Data Out 2
```
#### * *

```
31 32 38 39 40 46 47
```
## Figure 20a. Fast Read Instruction (Buffer Read Mode, BUF=1)

#### * = MSB

#### *

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 7
```
```
Instruction
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 21 22 23
```
```
31 30 29
```
```
1 0
```
```
0 Bh 18 17 16
```
```
32 Dummy Clocks
```
```
7 6 7 6 1 0 7
```
```
Data Out 1 Data Out 2
```
#### * *

```
39 40 46 47 48 54 55
```
```
0
```
## Figure 20b. Fast Read Instruction (Continuous Read Mode, BUF=0)


##### - 43 -

#### 8.2.17 Fast Read with 4-Byte Address (0Ch).................................................................................

The Fast Read instruction allows one or more data bytes to be sequentially read from the Data Buffer after
executing the Read Page Data instruction. The Fast Read instruction is initiated by driving the /CS pin low
and then shifting the instruction code “ 0 Ch” followed by the 16 - bit Column Address and 24 - bit dummy clocks
(when BUF=1) or a 40 - bit dummy clocks (when BUF=0) into the DI pin. After the address is received, the
data byte of the addressed Data Buffer location will be shifted out on the DO pin at the falling edge of CLK
with most significant bit (MSB) first. The address is automatically incremented to the next higher address
after each byte of data is shifted out allowing for a continuous stream of data. The instruction is completed
by driving /CS high.

The Fast Read instruction sequence is shown in Figure 21 a & 2 1 b. When BUF=1, the device is in the Buffer
Read Mode. The data output sequence will start from the Data Buffer location specified by the 16-bit Column
Address and continue to the end of the Data Buffer. Once the last byte of data is output, the output pin will
become Hi-Z state. When BUF=0, the device is in the Continuous Read Mode, the data output sequence
will start from the first byte of the Data Buffer and increment to the next higher address. When the end of
the Data Buffer is reached, the data of the first byte of next memory page will be following and continues
through the entire memory array. This allows using a single Read instruction to read out the entire memory
array and is also compatible to Winbond’s SpiFlash NOR flash memory command sequence.

#### * = MSB

#### *

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 7
```
```
Instruction
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 21 22 23
```
```
15 14 13
```
```
1 0
```
```
0 Ch^210
```
```
Column Address[ 15 : 0 ]^24 C^ Dloucmkmsy^
```
```
7 6 7 6 1 0 7
```
```
Data Out 1 Data Out 2
```
#### * *

```
47 48 54 55 56 62 63
```
## Figure 21a. Fast Read with 4-Byte Address Instruction (Buffer Read Mode, BUF=1)

#### * = MSB

#### *

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 7
```
```
Instruction
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 21 22 23
```
```
39 38 37
```
```
1 0
```
```
0 Ch 26 25 24
```
```
40 Dummy Clocks
```
```
7 6 7 6 1 0 7
```
```
Data Out 1 Data Out 2
```
#### * *

```
47 48 54 55 56 62 63
```
```
0
```
## Figure 21b. Fast Read with 4-Byte Address Instruction (Continuous Read Mode, BUF=0).......................


```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 44 - Revision C

#### 8.2.18 Fast Read Dual Output (3Bh)

The Fast Read Dual Output (3Bh) instruction is similar to the standard Fast Read (0Bh) instruction except
that data is output on two pins; IO 0 and IO 1. This allows data to be transferred at twice the rate of standard
SPI devices.

The Fast Read Dual Output instruction sequence is shown in Figure 22 a & 2 2 b. When BUF=1, the device
is in the Buffer Read Mode. The data output sequence will start from the Data Buffer location specified by
the 16-bit Column Address and continue to the end of the Data Buffer. Once the last byte of data is output,
the output pin will become Hi-Z state. When BUF=0, the device is in the Continuous Read Mode, the data
output sequence will start from the first byte of the Data Buffer and increment to the next higher address.
When the end of the Data Buffer is reached, the data of the first byte of next memory page will be following
and continues through the entire memory array. This allows using a single Read instruction to read out the
entire memory array and is also compatible to Winbond’s SpiFlash NOR flash memory command sequence.

## * = MSB

## *

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 7
```
```
Instruction
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 21 22 23
```
```
3 Bh 15 14 13 2 1 0
```
```
Column Address[ 15 : 0 ]^8 CDluomckmsy^
```
```
7
```
```
Data Out 1
```
## *

```
31 32
```
```
6 4 2 0
```
```
33 34
```
```
7 5 3 1
```
```
Data Out 2
```
```
6 4 2 0
```
```
7 5 3 1
```
```
6
```
```
35 36 37 38 39 40
```
## *

## Figure 22a. Fast Read Dual Output Instruction (Buffer Read Mode, BUF=1)

## * = MSB

## *

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 7
```
```
Instruction
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 21 22 23
```
```
3 Bh 31 30 29 18 17 16
```
```
7
```
```
Data Out 1
```
## *

```
39 40
```
```
6 4 2 0
```
```
41 42
```
```
7 5 3 1
```
```
Data Out 2
```
```
6 4 2 0
```
```
7 5 3 1
```
```
6
```
```
43 44 45 46 47 48
```
```
32 Dummy Clocks
0
```
## *

## Figure 22b. Fast Read Dual Output Instruction (Continuous Read Mode, BUF=0)


##### - 45 -

#### 8.2.19 Fast Read Dual Output with 4-Byte Address (3Ch)

The Fast Read Dual Output (3Ch) instruction is similar to the standard Fast Read (0Bh) instruction except
that data is output on two pins; IO 0 and IO 1. This allows data to be transferred at twice the rate of standard
SPI devices.

The Fast Read Dual Output instruction sequence is shown in Figure 23 a & 2 3 b. When BUF=1, the device
is in the Buffer Read Mode. The data output sequence will start from the Data Buffer location specified by
the 16-bit Column Address and continue to the end of the Data Buffer. Once the last byte of data is output,
the output pin will become Hi-Z state. When BUF=0, the device is in the Continuous Read Mode, the data
output sequence will start from the first byte of the Data Buffer and increment to the next higher address.
When the end of the Data Buffer is reached, the data of the first byte of next memory page will be following
and continues through the entire memory array. This allows using a single Read instruction to read out the
entire memory array and is also compatible to Winbond’s SpiFlash NOR flash memory command sequence.

## * = MSB

## *

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 7
```
```
Instruction
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 21 22 23
```
```
3 Ch 15 14 13 2 1 0
```
```
Column Address[ 15 : 0 ]^24 C^ Dloucmksmy^
```
```
7
```
```
Data Out 1
```
## *

```
47 48
```
```
6 4 2 0
```
```
49 50
```
```
7 5 3 1
```
```
Data Out 2
```
```
6 4 2 0
```
```
7 5 3 1
```
```
6
```
```
51 52 53 54 55 56
```
## *

## Figure 23a. Fast Read Dual Output with 4-Byte Address Instruction (Buffer Read Mode, BUF=1)

## * = MSB

## *

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 7
```
```
Instruction
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 29 30 31
```
```
3 Ch 39 38 37 18 17 16
```
```
7
```
```
Data Out 1
```
## *

```
47 48
```
```
6 4 2 0
```
```
49 50
```
```
7 5 3 1
```
```
Data Out 2
```
```
6 4 2 0
```
```
7 5 3 1
```
```
6
```
```
51 52 53 54 55 56
```
```
40 Dummy Clocks
0
```
## *

## Figure 23b. Fast Read Dual Output with 4-Byte Address Instruction (Continuous Read Mode, BUF=0)


```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 46 - Revision C

#### 8.2.20 Fast Read Quad Output (6Bh)

The Fast Read Quad Output (6Bh) instruction is similar to the Fast Read Dual Output (3Bh) instruction
except that data is output on four pins, IO 0 , IO 1 , IO 2 , and IO 3. The Fast Read Quad Output Instruction allows
data to be transferred at four times the rate of standard SPI devices.

The Fast Read Quad Output instruction sequence is shown in Figure 24 a & 2 4 b. When BUF=1, the device
is in the Buffer Read Mode. The data output sequence will start from the Data Buffer location specified by
the 16-bit Column Address and continue to the end of the Data Buffer. Once the last byte of data is output,
the output pin will become Hi-Z state. When BUF=0, the device is in the Continuous Read Mode, the data
output sequence will start from the first byte of the Data Buffer and increment to the next higher address.
When the end of the Data Buffer is reached, the data of the first byte of next memory page will be following
and continues through the entire memory array. This allows using a single Read instruction to read out the
entire memory array and is also compatible to Winbond’s SpiFlash NOR flash memory command sequence.

When WP-E bit in the Status Register is set to a 1, this instruction is disabled.^

#### *

#### *=^ MSB

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 7
```
```
Instruction
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 21 22 23
```
```
6 Bh^151413210
```
```
Column Address[ 15 : 0 ]^8 CDluomckmsy^
```
```
5
```
```
Data
Out 1
```
```
31 32
```
```
4 0
```
```
33 34
```
```
5 1
```
```
4
```
```
35 36 37 38 39 40
```
```
IO 2
```
```
High Impedance
6 2 6
```
```
7 3 7
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
#### *Data

```
Out 2
```
#### *Data

```
Out 3
```
#### *Data

```
Out 4
```
#### *Data

```
Out 5
```
```
/Hold
(IO 3 )
```
```
High
```
## Figure 24a. Fast Read Quad Output Instruction (Buffer Read Mode, BUF=1)

#### *

#### *=^ MSB

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 7
```
```
Instruction
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 21 22 23
```
```
6 Bh 31 30 29 18 17 16
```
```
5
```
```
Data
Out 1
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
4
```
```
48
```
```
IO 2 High^ Impedance 6 2 6
```
```
7 3 7
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
#### *Data

```
Out 2
```
#### *Data

```
Out 3
```
#### *Data

```
Out 4
```
#### *Data

```
Out 5
```
```
32 Dummy Clocks
0
```
```
39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47
```
```
/Hold
(IO 3 )
```
```
High
```
## Figure 24b. Fast Read Quad Output Instruction (Continuous Read Mode, BUF=0)


##### - 47 -

#### 8.2.21 Fast Read Quad Output with 4-Byte Address (6Ch)

The Fast Read Quad Output (6Ch) instruction is similar to the Fast Read Dual Output (3Bh) instruction
except that data is output on four pins, IO 0 , IO 1 , IO 2 , and IO 3. The Fast Read Quad Output Instruction allows
data to be transferred at four times the rate of standard SPI devices.

The Fast Read Quad Output instruction sequence is shown in Figure 25 a & 2 5 b. When BUF=1, the device
is in the Buffer Read Mode. The data output sequence will start from the Data Buffer location specified by
the 16-bit Column Address and continue to the end of the Data Buffer. Once the last byte of data is output,
the output pin will become Hi-Z state. When BUF=0, the device is in the Continuous Read Mode, the data
output sequence will start from the first byte of the Data Buffer and increment to the next higher address.
When the end of the Data Buffer is reached, the data of the first byte of next memory page will be following
and continues through the entire memory array. This allows using a single Read instruction to read out the
entire memory array and is also compatible to Winbond’s SpiFlash NOR flash memory command sequence.

When WP-E bit in the Status Register is set to a 1, this instruction is disabled.^

#### *

#### *=^ MSB

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 7
```
```
Instruction
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 21 22 23
```
```
6 Ch^151413210
```
```
Column Address[ 15 : 0 ]^24 C^ Dloucmksmy^
```
```
5
```
```
Data
Out 1
```
```
47 48
```
```
4 0
```
```
49 50
```
```
5 1
```
```
4
```
```
51 52 53 54 55 56
```
```
IO 2
```
```
High Impedance
6 2 6
```
```
7 3 7
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
#### *Data

```
Out 2
```
#### *Data

```
Out 3
```
#### *Data

```
Out 4
```
#### *Data

```
Out 5
```
```
/Hold
(IO 3 )
```
```
High
```
## Figure 25a. Fast Read Quad Output with 4-Byte Address Instruction (Buffer Read Mode, BUF=1)

#### *

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 7
```
```
Instruction
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 29 30 31
```
```
6 Ch 39 38 37 18 17 16
```
```
5
```
```
Data
Out 1
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
4
```
```
56
```
```
IO 2 High^ Impedance 6 2 6
```
```
7 3 7
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
#### *Data

```
Out 2
```
#### *Data

```
Out 3
```
#### *Data

```
Out 4
```
#### *Data

```
Out 5
```
```
40 Dummy Clocks
0
```
```
47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55
```
#### *=^ MSB

```
/Hold
(IO 3 )
```
```
High
```
## Figure 25b. Fast Read Quad Output with 4-Byte Address Instruction (Continuous Read Mode, BUF=0)


```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 48 - Revision C

#### 8.2.22 Fast Read Dual I/O (BBh)

The Fast Read Dual I/O (BBh) instruction allows for improved random access while maintaining two IO
pins, IO 0 and IO 1. It is similar to the Fast Read Dual Output (3Bh) instruction but with the capability to input
the Column Address or the dummy clocks two bits per clock. This reduced instruction overhead may allow
for code execution (XIP) directly from the Dual SPI in some applications.

The Fast Read Quad Output instruction sequence is shown in Figure 26 a & 2 6 b. When BUF=1, the device
is in the Buffer Read Mode. The data output sequence will start from the Data Buffer location specified by
the 16-bit Column Address and continue to the end of the Data Buffer. Once the last byte of data is output,
the output pin will become Hi-Z state. When BUF=0, the device is in the Continuous Read Mode, the data
output sequence will start from the first byte of the Data Buffer and increment to the next higher address.
When the end of the Data Buffer is reached, the data of the first byte of next memory page will be following
and continues through the entire memory array. This allows using a single Read instruction to read out the
entire memory array and is also compatible to Winbond’s SpiFlash NOR flash memory command sequence.

## * = MSB

## *

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 7
```
```
Instruction
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 13 14 15
```
```
BBh 14 12 10 4 2 0
```
```
Column Address[ 15 : 0 ]^4 CDluomckmsy^
```
```
7
```
```
Data Out 1
```
## *

```
19 20
```
```
6 4 2 0
```
```
21 22
```
```
7 5 3 1
```
```
Data Out 2
```
```
6 4 2 0
```
```
7 5 3 1
```
```
6
```
```
23 24 25 26 27 28
```
## *

```
15 13 11 5 3 1
```
## Figure 26a. Fast Read Dual I/O Instruction (Buffer Read Mode, BUF=1)

## * = MSB

## *

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 7
```
```
Instruction
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 15 16 17
```
```
BBh 30 28 26 16 14 12
```
```
7
```
```
Data Out 1
```
## *

```
23 24
```
```
6 4 2 0
```
```
25 26
```
```
7 5 3 1
```
```
Data Out 2
```
```
6 4 2 0
```
```
7 5 3 1
```
```
6
```
```
27 28 29 30 31 32
```
```
16 Dummy Clocks
0
```
## *

```
31 29 27 17 15 13 1
```
## Figure 26b. Fast Read Dual I/O Instruction (Continuous Read Mode, BUF=0)..........................................


##### - 49 -

#### 8.2.23 Fast Read Dual I/O with 4-Byte Address (BCh)

The Fast Read Dual I/O (BCh) instruction allows for improved random access while maintaining two IO
pins, IO 0 and IO 1. It is similar to the Fast Read Dual Output (3Bh) instruction but with the capability to input
the Column Address or the dummy clocks two bits per clock. This reduced instruction overhead may allow
for code execution (XIP) directly from the Dual SPI in some applications.

The Fast Read Quad Output instruction sequence is shown in Figure 27 a & 2 7 b. When BUF=1, the device
is in the Buffer Read Mode. The data output sequence will start from the Data Buffer location specified by
the 16-bit Column Address and continue to the end of the Data Buffer. Once the last byte of data is output,
the output pin will become Hi-Z state. When BUF=0, the device is in the Continuous Read Mode, the data
output sequence will start from the first byte of the Data Buffer and increment to the next higher address.
When the end of the Data Buffer is reached, the data of the first byte of next memory page will be following
and continues through the entire memory array. This allows using a single Read instruction to read out the
entire memory array and is also compatible to Winbond’s SpiFlash NOR flash memory command sequence.

## * = MSB

## *

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 7
```
```
Instruction
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 13 14 15
```
```
BCh 14 12 10 4 2 0
```
```
Column Address[ 15 : 0 ]^12 C^ Dloucmkmsy^
```
```
7
```
```
Data Out 1
```
## *

```
27 28
```
```
6 4 2 0
```
```
29 30
```
```
7 5 3 1
```
```
Data Out 2
```
```
6 4 2 0
```
```
7 5 3 1
```
```
6
```
```
31 32 33 34 35 36
```
## *

```
15 13 11 5 3 1
```
## Figure 27a. Fast Read Dual I/O with 4-Byte Address Instruction (Buffer Read Mode, BUF=1)

## * = MSB

## *

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 7
```
```
Instruction
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 19 20 21
```
```
BCh 38 36 34 16 14 12
```
```
7
```
```
Data Out 1
```
## *

```
27 28
```
```
6 4 2 0
```
```
29 30
```
```
7 5 3 1
```
```
Data Out 2
```
```
6 4 2 0
```
```
7 5 3 1
```
```
6
```
```
31 32 33 34 35 36
```
```
20 Dummy Clocks
0
```
## *

```
39 37 35 17 15 13 1
```
## Figure 27b. Fast Read Dual I/O with 4-Byte Address Instruction (Continuous Read Mode, BUF=0)


```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 50 - Revision C

#### 8.2.24 Fast Read Quad I/O (EBh)

The Fast Read Quad I/O (EBh) instruction is similar to the Fast Read Dual I/O (BBh) instruction except that
address and data bits are input and output through four pins IO 0 , IO 1 , IO 2 and IO 3 prior to the data output.
The Quad I/O dramatically reduces instruction overhead allowing faster random access for code execution
(XIP) directly from the Quad SPI.

The Fast Read Quad Output instruction sequence is shown in Figure 28 a & 2 8 b. When BUF=1, the device
is in the Buffer Read Mode. The data output sequence will start from the Data Buffer location specified by
the 16-bit Column Address and continue to the end of the Data Buffer. Once the last byte of data is output,
the output pin will become Hi-Z state. When BUF=0, the device is in the Continuous Read Mode, the data
output sequence will start from the first byte of the Data Buffer and increment to the next higher address.
When the end of the Data Buffer is reached, the data of the first byte of next memory page will be following
and continues through the entire memory array. This allows using a single Read instruction to read out the
entire memory array and is also compatible to Winbond’s SpiFlash NOR flash memory command sequence.

When WP-E bit in the Status Register is set to a 1, this instruction is disabled.

## Figure 28a. Fast Read Quad I/O Instruction (Buffer Read Mode, BUF=1) - 5 -

```
*
*=^ MSB
```
```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 7
```
```
Instruction
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9
```
```
EBh
```
```
Column
Address[ 15 : 0 ]
```
```
5
```
```
Data
Out 1
```
```
13 14 15 16
```
```
4
```
```
17 18 19 20 21 22
```
```
IO 2
```
```
High Impedance
6
```
```
/Hold
(IO 3 )
```
```
High
7
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
```
*Data
Out 2
```
```
*Data
Out 3
```
```
*Data
Out 4
```
```
12 8
```
```
13 9
```
```
14 10
```
```
15 11
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
```
X X
```
```
X X
```
```
X X
```
```
X X
```
```
10 11 12
```
```
4 Dummy
Clocks
X X
```
```
X X
```
```
X X
```
```
X X
```

##### - 51 -

## Figure 28b. Fast Read Quad I/O Instruction (Continuous Read Mode, BUF=0)

## *

## *=^ MSB

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 7
```
```
Instruction
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 13 14 15
```
```
EBh^444036242016
```
```
5
```
```
Data
Out 1
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
4
```
```
28
```
```
IO 2
```
```
High Impedance 6 2 6
```
/Hold
(IO 3 )

```
High
7 3 7
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
## *Data

```
Out 2
```
## *Data

```
Out 3
```
## *Data

```
Out 4
```
## *Data

```
Out 5
```
```
12 Dummy Clocks
0
```
```
19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27
```
```
45 41 37 25 21 17 1
```
```
46 42 38 26 22 18 2
```
```
47 43 39 27 23 19 3
```

```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 52 - Revision C

#### 8.2.25 Fast Read Quad I/O with 4-Byte Address (ECh)

The Fast Read Quad I/O (ECh) instruction is similar to the Fast Read Dual I/O (BBh) instruction except that
address and data bits are input and output through four pins IO 0 , IO 1 , IO 2 and IO 3 prior to the data output.
The Quad I/O dramatically reduces instruction overhead allowing faster random access for code execution
(XIP) directly from the Quad SPI.

The Fast Read Quad Output instruction sequence is shown in Figure 29 a & 2 9 b. When BUF=1, the device
is in the Buffer Read Mode. The data output sequence will start from the Data Buffer location specified by
the 16-bit Column Address and continue to the end of the Data Buffer. Once the last byte of data is output,
the output pin will become Hi-Z state. When BUF=0, the device is in the Continuous Read Mode, the data
output sequence will start from the first byte of the Data Buffer and increment to the next higher address.
When the end of the Data Buffer is reached, the data of the first byte of next memory page will be following
and continues through the entire memory array. This allows using a single Read instruction to read out the
entire memory array and is also compatible to Winbond’s SpiFlash NOR flash memory command sequence.

When WP-E bit in the Status Register is set to a 1, this instruction is disabled.

## Figure 29a. Fast Read Quad I/O with 4-Byte Address Instruction (Buffer Read Mode, BUF=1)................

```
*
*=^ MSB
```
```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 7
```
```
Instruction
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9
```
```
ECh
```
```
Column
Address[ 15 : 0 ]
```
```
5
```
```
Data
Out 1
```
```
21 22
```
```
4
```
```
23 24 25 25 27 28
```
```
IO 2
```
```
High Impedance
6
```
```
/Hold
(IO 3 )
```
```
High
7
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
```
*Data
Out 2
```
```
*Data
Out 3
```
```
*Data
Out 4
```
```
12 8
```
```
13 9
```
```
14 10
```
```
15 11
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
```
X
```
```
X
```
```
X
```
```
X
```
```
10 11 12
```
```
10 Dummy
Clocks
X
```
```
X
```
```
X
```
```
X
```

##### - 53 -

## Figure 29b. Fast Read Quad I/O with 4-Byte Address Instruction (Continuous Read Mode, BUF=0)

## *

## *=^ MSB

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 7
```
```
Instruction
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
8 9 15 16 17
```
```
ECh^524844242016
```
```
5
```
```
Data
Out 1
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
4
```
```
30
```
```
IO 2
```
```
High Impedance 6 2 6
```
```
7 3 7
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
```
4 0
```
```
5 1
```
```
6 2
```
```
7 3
```
## *Data

```
Out 2
```
## *Data

```
Out 3
```
## *Data

```
Out 4
```
## *Data

```
Out 5
```
```
14 Dummy Clocks
0
```
```
21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29
```
```
53 49 45 25 21 17 1
```
```
54 50 46 26 22 18 2
```
/(HIOol 3 d) 55 51 47 27 23 19 3

```
High
```

```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 54 - Revision C

#### 8.2.26 Accessing Unique ID / Parameter / OTP Pages (OTP-E=1)

In addition to the main memory array, the W25N512GV is also equipped with one Unique ID Page, one
Parameter Page, and ten OTP Pages.

```
Page Address Page Name Descriptions Data Length
00h Unique ID Page Factory programmed, Read Only 32 - Byte x 16
01h Parameter Page Factory programmed, Read Only 256 - Byte x 3
02h OTP Page [0] Program Only, OTP lockable 2,112-Byte
... OTP Pages [1:8] Program Only, OTP lockable 2,112-Byte
0Bh OTP Page [9] Program Only, OTP lockable 2,112-Byte
```
To access these additional data pages, the OTP-E bit in Status Register-2 must be set to “1” first. Then,
Read operations can be performed on Unique ID and Parameter Pages, Read and Program operations can
be performed on the OTP pages if it’s not already locked. To return to the main memory array operation,
OTP-E bit needs to be to set to 0.

Read Operations

A “Page Data Read” command must be issued followed by a specific page address shown in the table
above to load the page data into the main Data Buffer. After the device finishes the data loading (BUSY=0),
all Read commands may be used to read the Data Buffer starting from any specified Column Address.
Please note all Read commands must now follow the “Buffer Read Mode” command structure (CA[15:0],
number of dummy clocks) regardless the previous BUF bit setting. ECC can also be enabled for the OTP
page read operations to ensure the data integrity.

Program and OTP Lock Operations

OTP pages provide the additional space (2K-Byte x 10) to store important data or security information that
can be locked to prevent further modification in the field. These OTP pages are in an erased state set in
the factory, and can only be programmed (change data from “1” to “0”) until being locked by OTP-L bit in
the Configuration/Status Register-2. OTP-E must be first set to “ 1 ” to enable the access to these OTP
pages, then the program data must be loaded into the main Data Buffer using any “Program Data Load”
commands. The “Program Execute” command followed by a specific OTP Page Address is used to initiate
the data transfer from the Data Buffer to the OTP page. When ECC is enabled, ECC calculation will be
performed during “Program Execute”, and the ECC information will be stored into the 64-Byte spare area.

Once the OTP pages are correctly programmed, OTP-L bit can be used to permanently lock these pages
so that no further modification is possible. While still in the “OTP Access Mode” (OTP-E=1), user needs to
set OTP-L bit in the Configuration/Status Register-2 to “1”, and issue a “Program Execute” command(Page
address is “don’t care”). After the device finishes the OTP lock setting (BUSY=0), the user can set OTP-E
to “0” to return to the main memory array operation.

SR1-L OTP Lock Operation

The Protection/Status Register-1 contains protection bits that can be set to protect either a portion or the
entire memory array from being Programmed/Erased or set the device to either Software Write Protection
(WP-E=0) or Hardware Write Protection (WP-E=1). Once the BP[3:0], TB, WP-E bits are set correctly,
SRP1 and SRP0 should also be set to “1”s as well to allow SR 1 - L bit being set to “1” to permanently lock
the protection settings in the Status Register-1 (SR1). Similar to the OTP-L setting procedure above, in
order to set SR1-L lock bit, the device must enter the “OTP Access Mode” (OTP-E=1) first, and SR1-L bit
should be set to “1” prior to the “Program Execute” command(Page address is “don’t care”). Once SR1-L
is set to “1” (BUSY=0), the user can set OTP-E to “0” to return to the main memory array operation.


##### - 55 -

#### 8.2.27 Parameter Page Data Definitions

The Parameter Page contains 3 identical copies of the 256-Byte Parameter Data. The table below lists all
the key data byte locations. All other unspecified byte locations have 00h data as default.

```
Byte
Number Descriptions^ Values^
0~3 Parameter page signature 4Fh, 4Eh, 46h, 49h
4~5 Revision number 00h, 00h
6~7 Feature supported 00h, 00h
8~9 Optional command supported 02h, 00h
10~31 Reserved All 00h
32~43 Device manufacturer 57h, 49h, 4Eh, 42h, 4Fh, 4Eh, 44h, 20h, 20h, 20h, 20h, 20h
```
```
44~63 Device model
```
```
57h, 32h, 35h, 4Eh, 35h, 31h, 32h, 47h, 5 6 h, 20h,
20h, 20h, 20h, 20h, 20h, 20h, 20h, 20h, 20h, 20h
64 JEDEC manufacturer ID EFh
65~66 Date code 00h, 00h
67~79 Reserved All 00h
80~83 Number of data bytes per page 00h, 08h, 00h, 00h
84~85 Number of spare bytes per page 40h, 00h
86~91 Reserved All 00h
92~95 Number of pages per block 40h, 00h, 00h, 00h
96~99 Number of blocks per logical unit 00h, 02h, 00h, 00h
100 Number of logical units 01h
101 Number of address bytes 00h
102 Number of bits per cell 01h
103~104 Bad blocks maximum per unit 0Ah, 00h
105~106 Block endurance 01h, 05h
107 Guaranteed valid blocks at beginning of target 01h
108~109 Block endurance for guaranteed valid blocks 00h, 00h
110 Number of programs per page 04h
111 Reserved 00h
112 Number of ECC bits 00h
113 Number of plane address bits 00h
114 Multi-plane operation attributes 00h
115~127 Reserved All 00h
128 I/O pin capacitance, maximum 08h
129~132 Reserved All 00h
133~134 Maximum page program time (us) BCh, 02h
135~136 Maximum block erase time (us) 10h, 27h
137~138 Maximum page read time (us) 32h, 00h
139~163 Reserved All 00h
164~165 Vendor specific revision number 00h, 00h
166~253 Vendor specific All 00h
254~255 Integrity CRC Set at test
256~511 Value of bytes 0~255
512~767 Value of bytes 0~255
768+ Reserved
```

```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 56 - Revision C

#### 8.2.28 Deep Power-Down (B9h)

Although the standby current during normal operation is relatively low, standby current can be further
reduced with the Deep Power-Down instruction. The lower power consumption makes the Power-Down
instruction especially useful for battery powered applications (See ICC1 and ICC2 in AC Characteristics).
The instruction is initiated by driving the /CS pin low and shifting the instruction code “B9h” as shown in
Figure 30.

The /CS pin must be driven high after the eighth bit has been latched. If this is not done the Power-down
instruction will not be executed. After /CS is driven high, the power-down state will entered within the time
duration of tDP (See AC Characteristics). While in the power-down state only the Release Power-down /
Device ID (ABh) instruction, which restores the device to normal operation, will be recognized. All other
instructions are ignored. This includes the Read Status Register instruction, which is always available
during normal operation. Ignoring all but one instruction makes the Power Down state a useful condition for
securing maximum write protection. The device always powers-up in the normal operation with the standby
current of ICC1.

## Figure 30 Deep Power-Down Instruction

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
```
```
Instruction (B9h)
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3
```
```
tDP
```
```
Stand-by current Power-down current
```

##### - 57 -

#### 8.2.29 Release Power-Down (ABh)

The Release from Power-Down instruction is used to release the device from the power-down state.

To release the device from the power-down state, the instruction is issued by driving the /CS pin low, shifting
the instruction code “ABh” and driving /CS high as shown in Figure 31. Release from power-down will take
the time duration of tRES (See AC Characteristics) before the device will resume normal operation and other
instructions are accepted. The /CS pin must remain high during the tRES time duration.

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
```
```
Instruction (ABh)
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3
```
```
tRES
```
```
Power-down current Stand-by current
```
## Figure 31 Release Power-down Instruction


```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 58 - Revision C

#### 8.2.30 Chip Erase (C7h / 60h)

The Chip Erase instruction sets all memory within the device to the erased state of all 1s (FFh). A Write
Enable instruction must be executed before the device will accept the Chip Erase Instruction (Status
Register bit WEL must equal 1). The instruction is initiated by driving the /CS pin low and shifting the
instruction code “C7h” or “60h”. The Chip Erase instruction sequence is shown in Figure 32.

The /CS pin must be driven high after the eighth bit has been latched. If this is not done the Chip Erase
instruction will not be executed. After /CS is driven high, the self-timed Chip Erase instruction will commence
for a time duration of tCE (See AC Characteristics). While the Chip Erase cycle is in progress, the Read
Status Register instruction may still be accessed to check the status of the BUSY bit. The BUSY bit is a 1
during the Chip Erase cycle and becomes a 0 when finished and the device is ready to accept other
instructions again. After the Chip Erase cycle has finished the Write Enable Latch (WEL) bit in the Status
Register is cleared to 0. The Chip Erase instruction will not be executed if any memory region is protected
by the Block Protect (TB, BP3, BP2, BP1, and BP0) bits.

## Figure 32. Chip Erase Instruction

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
DI
(IO 0 )
```
```
DO
(IO 1 )
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
```
```
Instruction (C7h/60h)
```
```
High Impedance
```
```
Mode 0
```
```
Mode 3
```

##### - 59 -

## 9. ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS()

### 9.1 Absolute Maximum Ratings(1)

```
PARAMETERS SYMBOL CONDITIONS RANGE UNIT
```
```
Supply Voltage VCC – 0.6 to + 2. 5 V
```
```
Voltage Applied to Any Pin VIO Relative to Ground – 0.6 to VCC+0.4 V
```
```
Transient Voltage on any Pin VIOT <20nS Transient^
Relative to Ground
```
- 2 .0 to VCC+ 2 .0 V

```
Storage Temperature TSTG – 65 to +150 °C
```
```
Lead Temperature TLEAD See Note (^2 ) °C
```
```
Electrostatic Discharge Voltage^ VESD Human Body Model(^3 )^ – 2000 to +2000 V
```
Notes:

1. This device has been designed and tested for the specified operation ranges. Proper operation
    outside of these levels is not guaranteed. Exposure to absolute maximum ratings may affect
    device reliability. Exposure beyond absolute maximum ratings may cause permanent damage.
2. Compliant with JEDEC Standard J-STD-20C for small body Sn-Pb or Pb-free (Green) assembly and
    the European directive on restrictions on hazardous substances (RoHS) 2002/95/EU.
3. JEDEC Standard JESD22-A114A (C1=100pF, R1=1500 ohms, R2=500 ohms).

### 9.2 Operating Ranges

```
PARAMETER SYMBOL CONDITIONS
```
```
SPEC
UNIT
MIN MAX
```
```
Supply Voltage VCC 2. 7 3.6 V
```
```
Ambient Temperature,
Operating
```
```
TA Industrial – 40 +85 °C
```

```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 60 - Revision C

### 9.3 Power-up Power-down Timing Requirements

```
PARAMETER SYMBOL
```
```
SPEC
UNIT
MIN MAX
VCC (min) to /CS Low tVSL(1) 200 μs
```
```
Time Delay Before Write Instruction tPUW(1) 1 ms
```
Note:

1. These parameters are characterized only.

## Figure 33a. Power-up Timing and Voltage Levels

## Figure 33b. Power-up, Power-Down Requirement

```
VCC
```
```
Time
```
```
/CS must track VCC
during VCC Ramp Up/Down
```
```
/CS
```

##### - 61 -

### 9.4 DC Electrical Characteristics

```
PARAMETER SYMBOL CONDITIONS
```
```
SPEC
UNIT
MIN TYP MAX
Input Capacitance CIN(1) VIN = 0V(1)^6 pF
```
Output Capacitance (^) Cout(1) VOUT = 0V(1) 8 pF
Input Leakage ILI (^) ±2 μA
I/O Leakage ILO ±2 μA
Standby Current ICC 1 /CS = VCC, VIN = GND or VCC^10 50 μA
Deep Power-Down
Current ICC^2
/CS = VCC,
VIN = GND or VCC 1 10 μA^
Read Current ICC 3 C = 0.1 VCC / 0.9 VCC DO = Open 25 35 mA
Current Page Program ICC 4 /CS = VCC (^25 35) mA
Current Block/Chip Erase ICC 5 /CS = VCC 25 35 mA
Input Low Voltage VIL - 0.5 VCC x 0.3 V
Input High Voltage VIH (^) VCC x 0.7 VCC + 0.4 V
Output Low Voltage VOL IOL = 2.1mA 0. 4 V
Output High Voltage VOH IOH = – 4 00μA 2.4 V
Notes:
1. Tested on sample basis and specified through design and characterization data. TA = 25° C, VCC = 3.0V.


```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 62 - Revision C

### 9.5 AC Measurement Conditions

```
PARAMETER SYMBOL
```
```
SPEC
UNIT
MIN MAX
Load Capacitance CL 30 pF
```
```
Input Rise and Fall Times TR, TF 5 ns
```
```
Input Pulse Voltages VIN 0. 1 VCC to 0. 9 VCC V
```
```
Input Timing Reference Voltages IN 0.3 VCC to 0.7 VCC V
```
```
Output Timing Reference Voltages OUT 0. 5 VCC V
```
## Figure 34. AC Measurement I/O Waveform

```
Input and Output
Input Levels Timing Reference Levels
```
```
0.9 VCC
```
```
0.1 VCC
```
```
0.5 VCC
```

##### - 63 -

### 9.6 AC Electrical Characteristics(3)

```
DESCRIPTION SYMBOL ALT
```
```
SPEC
UNIT
MIN TYP MAX
```
```
Clock frequency for all instructions except
Continuous Read
```
```
FR fC1 D.C. 166 MHz
```
```
Clock frequency for Continuous Read FR^ fC1^ D.C.^104 MHz^
```
```
Clock High, Low Time
for all instructions
```
```
tCLH,^
tCLL(1)
```
(^4) ns
Clock Rise Time peak to peak tCLCH(2) 0.1 V/ns
Clock Fall Time peak to peak tCHCL(2) 0.1 V/ns
/CS Active Setup Time relative to CLK tSLCH tCSS 5 ns
/CS Not Active Hold Time relative to CLK tCHSL 5 ns
Data In Setup Time tDVCH tDSU 2 ns
Data In Hold Time tCHDX tDH 3 ns
/CS Active Hold Time relative to CLK tCHSH 3 ns
/CS Not Active Setup Time relative to CLK tSHCH 3 ns
/CS Deselect Time (for Array Read  Array Read) tSHSL 1 tCSH 10 ns
/CS Deselect Time (for Erase, Program or Read
Status Registers  Read Status Registers)
tSHSL 2 tCSH 50 ns
Output Disable Time tSHQZ(2) tDIS 7 ns
Clock Low to Output Valid tCLQV tV 7 ns
Output Hold Time tCLQX tHO 2 ns
/HOLD Active Setup Time relative to CLK tHLCH 5 ns
/HOLD Active Hold Time relative to CLK tCHHH 5 ns
Continued – next page


```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 64 - Revision C

**AC Electrical Characteristics (cont’d)**

```
DESCRIPTION SYMBOL ALT
```
```
SPEC
UNIT
MIN TYP MAX
```
```
/HOLD Not Active Setup Time relative to CLK tHHCH 5 ns
```
```
/HOLD Not Active Hold Time relative to CLK tCHHL 5 ns
```
```
/HOLD to Output Low-Z tHHQX(2) tLZ 7 ns
```
```
/HOLD to Output High-Z tHLQZ(2) tHZ 12 ns
```
```
Write Protect Setup Time Before /CS Low tWHSL 20 ns
```
```
Write Protect Hold Time After /CS High tSHWL 100 ns
```
```
Status Register Write Time tW 50 ns
```
```
/CS High to Deep Power-Down Mode tDP(2) 3 μs
```
/CS High to Standby Mode (Release DPD) (^) tRES(2) 3 μs
/CS High to next Instruction after Reset during
Page Data Read / Program Execute / Block Erase /
Chip Erase
tRST(2) 5/10/500 μs
/CS High to next instruction after Reset with page 0
data load option
tRST2 100 us
Read Page Data Time (ECC disabled) tRD 1 25 μs
Read Page Data Time (ECC enabled) tRD 2 60 μs
Continuous Read Stop to Device Ready Time tRD 3 5 μs
Page Program, OTP Lock, BBM Management Time tPP 250 700 us
Block Erase Time tBE 2 10 ms
Chip Erase Time tCE 1 5 s
Number of partial page programs NoP 4 times
Notes:

1. Clock high + Clock low must be less than or equal to 1/fC.
2. Value guaranteed by design and/or characterization, not 100% tested in production.
3. Tested on sample basis and specified through design and characterization data. TA = 25° C, VCC = 3.0V.


##### - 65 -

## 9.7 Serial Output Timing

### 9.8 Serial Input Timing

### 9.9 /HOLD Timing

### 9.10 /WP Timing

```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
IO
output
```
```
tCLQX
```
```
tCLQV
tCLQX
```
```
tCLQV tCLL tSHQZ
```
```
LSB OUT
```
```
tCLH
```
```
MSB OUT
```
```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
IO
input
```
```
tCHSL
```
```
MSB IN
```
```
tSLCH
```
```
tDVCH tCHDX
```
```
tCHSH tSHCH
```
```
tCLCH tCHCL
LSB IN
```
```
tSHSL
```
```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
IO
output
```
```
/HOLD
```
```
tCHHL tHLCH
```
```
tCHHH
```
```
tHHCH
```
```
tHLQZ tHHQX
```
```
IO
input
```
```
/CS
```
```
CLK
```
```
/WP
```
```
tWHSL tSHWL
```
```
IO
input
Write Status Register is allowed Write Status Register is not allowed
```

```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 66 - Revision C

## 10. INVALID BLOCK MANAGEMENT

### 10.1 Invalid blocks

The W25N512GV may have initial invalid blocks when it ships from factory. Also, additional invalid blocks
may develop during the use of the device. Nvb represents the minimum number of valid blocks in the total
number of available blocks (See the below table). An invalid block is defined as blocks that contain one or
more bad bits. Block 0, block address 00h is guaranteed to be a valid block at the time of shipment.

```
Parameter Symbol Min Max Unit
```
```
Valid block number Nvb 502 512 blocks
```
```
Valid Block Number
```
### 10.2 Initial invalid blocks

Initial invalid blocks are defined as blocks that contain one or more invalid bits when shipped from factory.

Although the device contains initial invalid blocks, a valid block of the device is of the same quality and
reliability as all valid blocks in the device with reference to AC and DC specifications. The W25N512GV
has internal circuits to isolate each block from other blocks and therefore, the invalid blocks will not affect
the performance of the entire device.

Before the device is shipped from the factory, it will be erased and invalid blocks are marked. All initial
invalid blocks are marked with non-FFh at the 1st byte of main array and the 1st byte of spare area on the
1 st page. The initial invalid block information cannot be recovered if inadvertently erased. Therefore,
software should be created to initially check for invalid blocks by reading the marked locations before
performing any program or erase operation, and create a table of initial invalid blocks as following flow chart.

```
Start
```
```
Check “FFh”
```
```
Yes
```
```
Set Block Address = 0
```
```
Increment
Block Address
```
```
Update
Bad Block Table
```
```
No
```
```
Last Block?
```
```
No
```
```
Yes
```
```
End
```
```
Check “FFh” at 1 st byte of main array of 1 st page or
1 st byte of spare area of the 1 st page in the block
```
## Figure 35. Flow chart of create initial invalid block table


##### - 67 -

## 11. PACKAGE SPECIFICATIONS

### 11.1 8 - Pad WSON 6x5-mm (Package Code P)

```
Symbol
```
```
Millimeters Inches
```
```
Min Nom Max Min Nom Max
A 0.70 0.75 0.80 0.028 0.030 0.031
A1 0.00 0.02 0.05 0.000 0.001 0.002
b 0.35 0.40 0.48 0.014 0.016 0.019
C^ --- 0.20 REF --- --- 0.008 REF ---
D 5.90 6.00 6.10 0.232 0.236 0.240
D2 3.35 3.40 3.45 0.132 0.134 0.136
E^ 4.90 5.00 5.10 0.193 0.197 0.201
E2 4.25 4.30 4.35 0.167 0.169 0.171
e^ 1.27 BSC 0.050 BSC
L 0.55 0.60 0.65 0.022 0.024 0.026
```
```
y 0.00 --- 0.075 0.000 --- 0.003
```
Note:

The metal pad area on the bottom center of the package is not connected to any internal electrical signals. It can be
left floating or connected to the device ground (GND pin). Avoid placement of exposed PCB vias under the pad.


```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 68 - Revision C

### 11.2 8 - Pad WSON 8x6-mm (Package Code E)

```
Symbol
```
```
Millimeters Inches
Min Nom Max Min Nom Max
A 0.70 0.75 0.80 0.028 0.030 0.031
A1 0.00 0.02 0.05 0.000 0.001 0.002
b 0.35 0.40 0.48 0.014 0.016 0.019
C --- 0.20 REF --- --- 0.008 REF ---
D 7.90 8.00 8.10 0.311 0.315 0.319
D2 3.35 3.40 3.45 0.1 32 0.1 34 0.1 36
E 5.90 6.00 6.10 0.232 0.236 0.240
E2 4.25 4.30 4.35 0. 167 0. 169 0. 171
e --- 1.27 --- --- 0. 050 ---
L 0.45 0.50 0.55 0.018 0.020 0.022
y 0.00 --- 0.050 0.000 --- 0.002
```

##### - 69 -

### 11.3 16 - Pin SOIC 300-mil (Package Code F)

```
Symbol
```
```
Millimeters Inches
Min Nom Max Min Nom Max
A 2.36 2.49 2.64 0.093 0.098 0.104
A1 0.10 --- 0.30 0.004 --- 0.012
A2 --- 2.31 --- --- 0.091 ---
b 0.33 0.41 0.51 0.013 0.016 0.020
C 0.18 0.23 0.28 0.007 0.009 0.011
D 10.08 10.31 10.49 0.397 0.406 0.413
E 10.01 10.31 10.64 0.394 0.406 0.419
E1 7.39 7.49 7.59 0.291 0.295 0.299
e 1.27 BSC 0.050 BSC
L 0.38 0.81 1.27 0.015 0.032 0.050
y --- --- 0.076 --- --- 0.003
```
```
θ^ 0°^ ---^ 8°^ 0°^ ---^ 8°^
```

```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 70 - Revision C

### 11.4 24 - Ball TFBGA 8x6-mm (Package Code B, 5x5-1 Ball Array)

```
Symbol
```
```
Millimeters Inches
Min Nom Max Min Nom Max
A --- --- 1.20 --- --- 0.047
A1 0.25 0.30 0.35 0.010 0.012 0.014
A2 --- 0.85 --- --- 0.033 ---
b 0.35 0.40 0.45 0.014 0.016 0.018
D 7.90 8.00 8.10 0.311 0.315 0.319
D1 4.00 BSC 0.157 BSC
E 5.90 6.00 6.10 0.232 0.236 0.240
E1 4.00 BSC 0.157 BSC
SE 1.00 TYP 0.039 TYP
SD 1.00 TYP 0.039 TYP
```
```
e^ 1.00 BSC^ 0.039 BSC^
```
```
Note:
Ball land: 0.45mm. Ball Opening: 0.35mm
PCB ball land suggested <= 0.35mm
```

##### - 71 -

## 12. ORDERING INFORMATION

Notes:

1. The “W” prefix is not included on the part marking.
2. Standard bulk shipments are in tray for WSON and TFBGA packages. For other packing options, please specify
    when placing orders.

# W(1) 25N 512G V x I

```
W = Winbond
```
```
25 N = Serial SLC NAND Memory
```
```
512G = 512M-bit
```
```
V = 2.7V to 3.6V
```
```
P = WSON8 6x5-mm E = 8-pad WSON 8x6mm
F = 16-pin SOIC 300-mil B = 24 - ball TFBGA 8x6-mm (5x5 ball array)
```
```
I = Industrial (- 40 °C to +85°C)
```
```
(^2 )
```
```
G = Green Package (Lead-free, RoHS Compliant, Halogen-free (TBBA), Antimony-Oxide-free Sb 2 O 3 )
and BUF=1 is the default value after power up
T = Green Package (Lead-free, RoHS Compliant, Halogen-free (TBBA), Antimony-Oxide-free Sb 2 O 3 )
and BUF=0 is the default value after power up
```

```
Publication Release Date: November 21 , 2018
```
- 72 - Revision C

### 12.1 Valid Part Numbers and Top Side Marking

The following table provides the valid part numbers for the W25N512GV SpiFlash Memory. Please contact
Winbond for specific availability by density and package type. Winbond SpiFlash memories use a 12 - digit
Product Number for ordering. However, due to limited space, the Top Side Marking on all packages uses
an abbreviated 11 - digit number.

Industrial Temperature:

#### PACKAGE TYPE DENSITY PRODUCT NUMBER TOP SIDE MARKING

##### P

#### WSON- 8 6x5mm 512M-bit^

#### W25N512GVPIG

#### W25N512GVPIT

#### 25N512GVPIG

#### 25N512GVPIT

##### E

```
WSON-8 8x6mm
```
#### 512M-bit

#### W25N512GVEIG

#### W25N512GVEIT

#### 25N512GVEIG

#### 25N512GVEIT

##### F

```
SOIC-16 300mil
```
#### 512M-bit

#### W25N512GVFIG

#### W25N512GVFIT

#### 25N512GVFIG

#### 25N512GVFIT

##### B

```
TFBGA-24 8x6mm
(5x5- 1 Ball Array)
```
#### 512M-bit

#### W25N512GVBIG

#### W25N512GVBIT

#### 25N512GVBIG

#### 25N512GVBIT

Note:

W25N512GVxIG: BUF=1 (Buffer Read Mode) is the default value after power up. BUF bit can be written to 0.
W25N512GVxIT: BUF=0 (Continuous Read Mode) is the default value after power up. BUF bit can be written to 1.


##### - 73 -

## 13. REVISION HISTORY

```
VERSION DATE PAGE DESCRIPTION
A 11 / 01 /201 6 New Create Preliminary
A1 01/12/2017 6,7,64,68,69 Added 6x5-mm WSON Package.
```
```
A2 03 /28/ 2017
```
```
25
```
```
58
```
```
Combined Device Reset (FFh) with Enable Reset(66h) & Reset
Device(99h) description.
Modified Power-up Timing and Voltage Levels
```
```
A3 07/13/2017 9, 36, 44, 45,
48~51
```
```
Updated Hold Pin description and Quad mode waveforms
```
```
A4 12/ 11 /2017 16,^18
27
```
```
Updated Configuration Register / Status Register-2.
Modified Device Reset (FFh) and Enable Reset(66h) & Reset
Device(99h) description and table.
```
```
A5 02/20/2018
```
```
13, 20, 31, 32
38
65
59
```
```
Updated about Bad Block Management
Added description for page program sequence
Added Invalid Block Management
Updated tVSL spec
B 06/11/2018 All Removed Preliminary Designator
```
```
C 11 /2 1 /2018
```
```
27
6~9, 69~72
60
64
```
```
Updated Reset Table
Removed 6x4 ball TFBGA-24 and added SOIC16 300mil Package
Updated tVSL and tPUW
Added tRD3 specification
```
## Trademarks

Winbond and SpiFlash are trademarks of Winbond Electronics Corporation.
All other marks are the property of their respective owner.

## Important Notice

Winbond products are not designed, intended, authorized or warranted for use as components in systems
or equipment intended for surgical implantation, atomic energy control instruments, airplane or spaceship
instruments, transportation instruments, traffic signal instruments, combustion control instruments, or for
other applications intended to support or sustain life. Furthermore, Winbond products are not intended for
applications wherein failure of Winbond products could result or lead to a situation wherein personal injury,
death or severe property or environmental damage could occur. Winbond customers using or selling these
products for use in such applications do so at their own risk and agree to fully indemnify Winbond for any
damages resulting from such improper use or sales.

Information in this document is provided solely in connection with Winbond products. Winbond
reserves the right to make changes, corrections, modifications or improvements to this document
and the products and services described herein at any time, without notice.


